Try Programiz PRO Learn Python practically 
                and Get Certified.
Learn Python practically 
                        and Get Certified.
In computer programming, data types specify the type of data that can be stored inside a variable.
For example, Here, 24 (an integer) is assigned to the num variable.
So the data type of num is of the int class.
Since everything is an object in Python programming, data types are actually classes and variables are instances(object) of these classes.
In Python, numeric data type is used to hold numeric values.
Integers, floating-point numbers and complex numbers fall under Python numbers category.
They are defined as int, float and complex classes in Python.
We can use the type() function to know which class a variable or a value belongs to.
Let's see an example, Output In the above example, we have created three variables named num1, num2 and num3 with values 5, 5.0, and 1+2j respectively.
We have also used the type() function to know which class a certain variable belongs to.
Since, List is an ordered collection of similar or different types of items separated by commas and enclosed within brackets [ ].
For example,  Here, we have created a list named languages with 3 string values inside it.
To access items from a list, we use the index number (0, 1, 2 ...).
For example, In the above example, we have used the index values to access items from the languages list.
To learn more about lists, visit Python List.
Tuple is an ordered sequence of items same as a list.
The only difference is that tuples are immutable.
Tuples once created cannot be modified.
In Python, we use the parentheses () to store items of a tuple.
For example, Here, product is a tuple with a string value Xbox and integer value 499.99.
Similar to lists, we use the index number to access tuple items in Python .
For example, To learn more about tuples, visit Python Tuples.
String is a sequence of characters represented by either single or double quotes.
For example, Output In the above example, we have created string-type variables: name and message with values 'Python' and 'Python for beginners' respectively.
To learn more about strings, visit Python Strings.
Set is an unordered collection of unique items.
Set is defined by values separated by commas inside braces { }.
For example, Output Here, we have created a set named student_info with 5 integer values.
Since sets are unordered collections, indexing has no meaning.
Hence, the slicing operator [] does not work.
To learn more about sets, visit Python Sets.
Python dictionary is an ordered collection of items.
It stores elements in key/value pairs.
Here, keys are unique identifiers that are associated with each value.
Let's see an example, Output In the above example, we have created a dictionary named capital_city.
Here, We use keys to retrieve the respective value.
But not the other way around.
For example, Here, we have accessed values using keys from the capital_city dictionary.
Since 'Nepal' is key, capital_city['Nepal'] accesses its respective value i.e.
Kathmandu However, 'Kathmandu' is the value for the 'Nepal' key, so capital_city['Kathmandu'] throws an error message.
To learn more about dictionaries, visit Python Dictionary.
Sorry about that.
Python Tutorial Python Numbers, Type Conversion and Mathematics Python Tutorial Python Dictionary  Python Tutorial Python Sets Python Tutorial Python Tuple © Parewa Labs Pvt.
Ltd. All rights reserved.