Try Programiz PRO Learn Python practically 
                and Get Certified.
Learn Python practically 
                        and Get Certified.
JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) is a popular data format used for representing structured data.
It's common to transmit and receive data between a server and web application in JSON format.
In Python, JSON exists as a string.
For example: It's also common to store a JSON object in a file.
To work with JSON (string, or file containing JSON object), you can use Python's json module.
You need to import the module before you can use it.
The json module makes it easy to parse JSON strings and files containing JSON object.
You can parse a JSON string using json.loads() method.
The method returns a dictionary.
Here, person is a JSON string, and person_dict is a dictionary.
You can use json.load() method to read a file containing JSON object.
Suppose, you have a file named person.json which contains a JSON object.
Here's how you can parse this file: Here, we have used the open() function to read the json file.
Then, the file is parsed using json.load() method which gives us a dictionary named data.
If you do not know how to read and write files in Python, we recommend you to check Python File I/O.
You can convert a dictionary to JSON string using json.dumps() method.
Here's a table showing Python objects and their equivalent conversion to JSON.
To write JSON to a file in Python, we can use json.dump() method.
In the above program, we have opened a file named person.txt in writing mode using 'w'.
If the file doesn't already exist, it will be created.
Then, json.dump() transforms person_dict to a JSON string which will be saved in the person.txt file.
When you run the program, the person.txt file will be created.
The file has following text inside it.
To analyze and debug JSON data, we may need to print it in a more readable format.
This can be done by passing additional parameters indent and sort_keys to json.dumps() and json.dump() method.
When you run the program, the output will be: In the above program, we have used 4 spaces for indentation.
And, the keys are sorted in ascending order.
By the way, the default value of indent is None.
And, the default value of sort_keys is False.
Recommended Readings: Sorry about that.
Python Library Python open() Python Tutorial Working with CSV files in Python Python Tutorial Python Docstrings Python Tutorial Python Main function © Parewa Labs Pvt.
Ltd. All rights reserved.