Try Programiz PRO Learn Python practically 
                and Get Certified.
Learn Python practically 
                        and Get Certified.
In computer programming, the if statement is a conditional statement.
It is used to execute a block of code only when a specific condition is met.
For example,  Suppose we need to assign different grades to students based on their scores.
These conditional tasks can be achieved using the if statement.
An if statement executes a block of code only if the specified condition is met.
Syntax Here, if the condition of the if  statement is:   Let's look at an example.
Note: Be mindful of the indentation while writing the if statements.
Indentation is the whitespace at the beginning of the code.
Here, the spaces before the print() statement denote that it's the body of the if statement.
Sample Output 1 In the above example, we have created a variable named number.
Notice the test condition, As the number is greater than 0, the condition evaluates True.
Hence, the body of the if statement executes.
Sample Output 2 Now, let's change the value of the number to a negative integer, say -5.
Now, when we run the program, the output will be: This is because the value of the number is less than 0.
Hence, the condition evaluates to False.
And, the body of the if statement is skipped.
An if statement can have an optional else clause.
The else statement executes if the condition in the if statement evaluates to False.
Syntax Here, if the condition inside the if statement evaluates to Let's look at an example.
Sample Output 1 In the above example, we have created a variable named number.
Since the value of the  number is 10, the condition evaluates to True.
Hence, code inside the body of if is executed.
Sample Output 2 If we change the value of the variable to a negative integer, let's say -5, our output will be: Here, the test condition evaluates to False.
Hence code inside the body of else is executed.
The if...else statement is used to execute a block of code among two alternatives.
However, if we need to make a choice between more than two alternatives, we use the if...elif...else statement.
Syntax Here, Let's look at an example.
Output In the above example, we have created a variable named number.
Since the value of the  number is 0, both the test conditions evaluate to False.
Hence, the statement inside the body of else is executed.
It is possible to include an if statement inside another if statement.
For example, Output Here's how this program works.
In certain situations, the if statement can be simplified into a single line.
For example, This code can be compactly written as This one-liner approach retains the same functionality but in a more concise format.
Python doesn't have a ternary operator.
However, we can use if...else to work like a ternary operator in other languages.
For example, can be written as We can use logical operators such as and and or within an if statement.
Output Here, we used the logical operator and to add two conditions in the if statement.
We also used >= (comparison operator) to compare two values.
Logical and comparison operators are often used with if...else statements.
Visit Python Operators to learn more.
Sorry about that.
Python Tutorial Python pass Statement Python Tutorial Python while Loop Python Tutorial Python Assert Statement Python Tutorial Python break and continue © Parewa Labs Pvt.
Ltd. All rights reserved.