Try Programiz PRO Learn Python practically 
                and Get Certified.
Learn Python practically 
                        and Get Certified.
We are going to exclusively use the csv module built into Python for this task.
But first, we will have to import the module as : We have already covered the basics of how to use the csv module to read and write into CSV files.
If you don't have any idea on using the csv module, check out our tutorial on Python CSV: Read and Write CSV files Let's look at a basic example of using csv.writer() to refresh your existing knowledge.
Suppose we want to write a CSV file with the following entries: Here's how we do it.
When we run the above program, an innovators.csv file is created in the current working directory with the given entries.
Here, we have opened the innovators.csv file in writing mode using open() function.
To learn more about opening files in Python, visit: Python File Input/Output Next, the csv.writer() function is used to create a writer object.
The writer.writerow() function is then used to write single rows to the CSV file.
If we need to write the contents of the 2-dimensional list to a CSV file, here's how we can do it.
The output of the program is the same as in Example 1.
Here, our 2-dimensional list is passed to the writer.writerows() function to write the content of the list to the CSV file.
Now let's see how we can write CSV files in different formats.
We will then learn how to customize the csv.writer() function to write them.
By default, a comma is used as a delimiter in a CSV file.
However, some CSV files can use delimiters other than a comma.
Few popular ones are | and \t.
Suppose we want to use | as a delimiter in the innovators.csv file of Example 1.
To write this file, we can pass an additional delimiter parameter to the csv.writer() function.
Let's take an example.
Output As we can see, the optional parameter delimiter = '|' helps specify the writer object that the CSV file should have | as a delimiter.
Some CSV files have quotes around each or some of the entries.
Let's take quotes.csv as an example, with the following entries: Using csv.writer() by default will not add these quotes to the entries.
In order to add them, we will have to use another optional parameter called quoting.
Let's take an example of how quoting can be used around the non-numeric values and ; as delimiters.
Output  Here, the quotes.csv file is created in the working directory with the above entries.
As you can see, we have passed csv.QUOTE_NONNUMERIC to the quoting parameter.
It is a constant defined by the csv module.
csv.QUOTE_NONNUMERIC specifies the writer object that quotes should be added around the non-numeric entries.
There are 3 other predefined constants you can pass to the quoting parameter: We can also write CSV files with custom quoting characters.
For that, we will have to use an optional parameter called quotechar.
Let's take an example of writing quotes.csv file in Example 4, but with * as the quoting character.
Output   Here, we can see that quotechar='*' parameter instructs the writer object to use * as quote for all non-numeric values.
Notice in Example 5 that we have passed multiple parameters (quoting, delimiter and quotechar) to the csv.writer() function.
This practice is acceptable when dealing with one or two files.
But it will make the code more redundant and ugly once we start working with multiple CSV files with similar formats.
As a solution to this, the csv module offers dialect as an optional parameter.
Dialect helps in grouping together many specific formatting patterns like delimiter, skipinitialspace, quoting, escapechar into a single dialect name.
It can then be passed as a parameter to multiple writer or reader instances.
Suppose we want to write a CSV file (office.csv) with the following content: The CSV file has quotes around each entry and uses | as a delimiter.
Instead of passing two individual formatting patterns, let's look at how to use dialects to write this file.
Output  Here, office.csv is created in the working directory with the above contents.
From this example, we can see that the csv.register_dialect() function is used to define a custom dialect.
Its syntax is: The custom dialect requires a name in the form of a string.
Other specifications can be done either by passing a sub-class of the Dialect class, or by individual formatting patterns as shown in the example.
While creating the writer object, we pass dialect='myDialect' to specify that the writer instance must use that particular dialect.
The advantage of using dialect is that it makes the program more modular.
Notice that we can reuse myDialect to write other CSV files without having to re-specify the CSV format.
The objects of csv.DictWriter() class can be used to write to a CSV file from a Python dictionary.
The minimal syntax of the csv.DictWriter() class is: Here, Output The program creates a players.csv file with the following entries: The full syntax of the csv.DictWriter() class is: To learn more about it in detail, visit: Python csv.DictWriter() class A lineterminator is a string used to terminate lines produced by writer objects.
The default value is \r\n.
You can change its value by passing any string as a lineterminator parameter.
However, the reader object only recognizes \n or \r as lineterminator values.
So using other characters as line terminators is highly discouraged.
In order to separate delimiter characters in the entries, the csv module by default quotes the entries using quotation marks.
So, if you had an entry: He is a strong, healthy man, it will be written as: "He is a strong, healthy man".
Similarly, the csv module uses double quotes in order to escape the quote character present in the entries by default.
If you had an entry: Go to "programiz.com", it would be written as: "Go to ""programiz.com""".
Here, we can see that each " is followed by a " to escape the previous one.
It handles how quotechar present in the entry themselves are quoted.
When True, the quoting character is doubled and when False, the escapechar is used as a prefix to the quotechar.
By default its value is True.
escapechar parameter is a string to escape the delimiter if quoting is set to csv.QUOTE_NONE and quotechar if doublequote is False.
Its default value is None.
Output  Here, we can see that / is prefix to all the " and , because we specified quoting=csv.QUOTE_NONE.
If it wasn't defined, then, the output would be: Since we allow quoting, the entries with special characters(" in this case) are double-quoted.
The entries with delimiter are also enclosed within quote characters.
(Starting and closing quote characters) The remaining quote characters are to escape the actual " present as part of the string, so that they are not interpreted as quotechar.
Note: The csv module can also be used for other file extensions (like: .txt) as long as their contents are in proper structure.
Recommended Reading: Read CSV Files in Python Sorry about that.
Python Tutorial Reading CSV files in Python Python Tutorial Python CSV: Read and Write CSV Files  Python Tutorial Working with CSV files in Python Python Library Python open() © Parewa Labs Pvt.
Ltd. All rights reserved.