Try Programiz PRO Learn Python practically 
                and Get Certified.
Learn Python practically 
                        and Get Certified.
In the previous tutorial you learned about Python comments.
Now, let's learn about variables and literals in Python.
In programming, a variable is a container (storage area) to hold data.
For example, Here, number is a variable storing the value 10.
As we can see from the above example, we use the assignment operator = to assign a value to a variable.
Output In the above example, we assigned the value programiz.pro to the site_name variable.
Then, we printed out the value assigned to site_name Note: Python is a type-inferred language, so you don't have to explicitly define the variable type.
It automatically knows that programiz.pro is a string and declares the site_name variable as a string.
Output Here, the value of site_name is changed from 'programiz.pro' to 'apple.com'.
If we want to assign the same value to multiple variables at once, we can do this as: Here, we have assigned the same string value 'programiz.com' to both the variables site1 and site2.
1.
Constant and variable names should have a combination of letters in lowercase (a to z) or uppercase (A to Z) or digits (0 to 9) or an underscore (_).
For example: 2.
Create a name that makes sense.
For example, vowel makes more sense than v. 3.
If you want to create a variable name having two words, use underscore to separate them.
For example: 5.
Python is case-sensitive.
So num and Num are different variables.
For example, 6.
Avoid using keywords like if, True, class, etc.
as variable names.
Literals are representations of fixed values in a program.
They can be numbers, characters, or strings, etc.
For example, 'Hello, World!
', 12, 23.0, 'C', etc.
Literals are often used to assign values to variables or constants.
For example, In the above expression, site_name is a variable, and 'programiz.com' is a literal.
There are different types of literals in Python.
Let's discuss some of the commonly used types in detail.
Numeric Literals are immutable (unchangeable).
Numeric literals can belong to 3 different numerical types: Integer, Float, and Complex.
Integer literals are numbers without decimal parts.
It also consists of negative numbers.
For example,  5, -11, 0, 12, etc.
Floating-point literals are numbers that contain decimal parts.
Just like integers, floating-point numbers can also be both positive and negative.
For example, 2.5, 6.76, 0.0, -9.45, etc.
Complex literals are numbers that represent complex numbers.
Here, numerals are in the form a + bj, where a is real and b is imaginary.
For example, 6+9j, 2+3j.
In Python, texts wrapped inside quotation marks are called string literals.. We can also use single quotes to create strings.
There are two boolean literals: True and False.
For example,  Here, true is a boolean literal assigned to pass.
Character literals are unicode characters enclosed in a quote.
For example, Here, S is a character literal assigned to some_character.
Python contains one special literal None.
We use it to specify a null variable.
For example, Here, we get None as an output as the value variable has no value assigned to it.
Let's see examples of four different collection literals.
List, Tuple, Dict, and Set literals.
Output In the above example, we created a list of fruits, a tuple of numbers, a dictionary of alphabets having values with keys designated to each value and a set of vowels.
To learn more about literal collections, refer to Python Data Types.
Sorry about that.
Python Tutorial Python Data Types Python Tutorial Python Keywords and Identifiers Python Tutorial Python Numbers, Type Conversion and Mathematics Python Tutorial Python Comments © Parewa Labs Pvt.
Ltd. All rights reserved.