Try Programiz PRO Learn Python practically 
                and Get Certified.
Learn Python practically 
                        and Get Certified.
A function is a block of code that performs a specific task.
Suppose we need to create a program to make a circle and color it.
We can create two functions to solve this problem: Dividing a complex problem into smaller chunks makes our program easy to understand and reuse.
Let's create our first function.
Here are the different parts of the program: Here, we have created a simple function named greet() that prints Hello World!
Note: When writing a function, pay attention to indentation, which are the spaces at the start of a code line.
In the above code, the print() statement is indented to show it's part of the function body, distinguishing the function's definition from its body.
In the above example, we have declared a function named greet().
If we run the above code, we won't get an output.
It's because creating a function doesn't mean we are executing the code inside it.
It means the code is there for us to use if we want to.
To use this function, we need to call the function.
Function Call Output In the above example, we have created a function named greet().
Here's how the control of the program flows: Here, Arguments are inputs given to the function.
Sample Output 1 Here, we passed 'John' as an argument to the greet() function.
We can pass different arguments in each call, making the function re-usable and dynamic.
Let's call the function with a different argument.
Sample Output 2 Output  In the above example, we have created a function named add_numbers() with arguments: num1 and num2.
Parameters Parameters are the variables listed inside the parentheses in the function definition.
They act like placeholders for the data the function can accept when we call them.
Think of parameters as the blueprint that outlines what kind of information the function expects to receive.
In this example, the print_age() function takes age as its input.
However, at this stage, the actual value is not specified.
The age parameter is just a placeholder waiting for a specific value to be provided when the function is called.
Arguments Arguments are the actual values that we pass to the function when we call it.
Arguments replace the parameters when the function executes.
Here, during the function call, the argument 25 is passed to the function.
We return a value from the function using the return statement.
Output In the above example, we have created a function named find_square().
The function accepts a number and returns the square of the number.
Note: The return statement also denotes that the function has ended.
Any code after return  is not executed.
The pass statement serves as a placeholder for future code, preventing errors from empty code blocks.
It's typically used where code is planned but has yet to be written.
Note: To learn more, visit Python Pass Statement.
Python provides some built-in functions that can be directly used in our program.
We don't need to create the function, we just need to call them.
Some Python library functions are: These library functions are defined inside the module.
And to use them, we must include the module inside our program.
For example, sqrt() is defined inside the math module.
Note: To learn more about library functions, please visit Python Library Functions.
Output Here, we imported a math module to use the library functions sqrt() and pow().
In Python, functions are divided into two categories: user-defined functions and standard library functions.
These two differ in several ways: User-Defined Functions These are the functions we create ourselves.
They're like our custom tools, designed for specific tasks we have in mind.
They're not part of Python's standard toolbox, which means we have the freedom to tailor them exactly to our needs, adding a personal touch to our code.
Standard Library Functions  Think of these as Python's pre-packaged gifts.
They come built-in with Python, ready to use.
These functions cover a wide range of common tasks such as mathematics, file operations, working with strings, etc.
They've been tried and tested by the Python community, ensuring efficiency and reliability.
Python allows functions to have default argument values.
Default arguments are used when no explicit values are passed to these parameters during a function call.
Let's look at an example.
Output Here, message has the default value of Hello.
When greet() is called with only one argument, message uses its default value.
Note: To learn more about default arguments in a function, please visit Python Function Arguments.
We can handle an arbitrary number of arguments using special symbols *args and **kwargs.
*args in Functions Using *args allows a function to take any number of positional arguments.
Output  *kwargs in Functions Using **kwargs allows the function to accept any number of keyword arguments.
Output  To learn more, visit Python *args and **kwargs.
Also Read: Sorry about that.
Python Tutorial Python Function Arguments Python Tutorial  Python Lambda/Anonymous Function  Python Tutorial Python User-defined Functions Python Tutorial Python Decorators © Parewa Labs Pvt.
Ltd. All rights reserved.