Try Programiz PRO Learn Python practically 
                and Get Certified.
Learn Python practically 
                        and Get Certified.
The fromkeys() method creates a dictionary from the given sequence of keys and values.
The syntax of the fromkeys() method is: Here, alphabets and numbers are the key and value of the dictionary.
The fromkeys() method can take two parameters: Note: The same value is assigned to all the keys of the dictionary.
The fromkeys() method returns: Note:  If the value of the dictionary is not provided, None is assigned to the keys.
Output In the above example, we have used the fromkeys() method to create the dictionary with the given set of keys and string value.
Here, the fromkeys() method creates a new dictionary named vowels from keys and value.
All the keys of the dictionary are assigned with the same value.
Output In the above example, we have created a dictionary named numbers with the given list of keys.
We have not provided any values, so all the keys are assigned None by default.
Output In the above example, we have used a list as the value for the dictionary.
The iterables like list, dictionary, etc are the mutable objects, meaning they can be modified.
Here, when we update the list value using append, the keys are assigned with the new updated values.
This is because each element is pointing to the same address in the memory.
To solve this problem, we can use dictionary comprehension.
We can use dictionary comprehension and prevent updating the dictionary when the mutable object (list, dictionary, etc) is updated.
For example, Output In the above example, we have used dictionary comprehension to create a dictionary named vowels.
Here, the value is not assigned to the keys of the dictionary.
But, for each key in keys, a new list of value is created.
The newly created list is assigned each key in the dictionary.
Also Read: Sorry about that.
Python Library Python Dictionary keys() Python Library Python Dictionary update() Python Library Python Dictionary values() Python Library Python Dictionary setdefault() © Parewa Labs Pvt.
Ltd. All rights reserved.