Back to Menu Earn professional certification, create projects & build a portfolio with guided Learning Paths.
(5 Courses + 339 questions) (7 Courses + 411 questions) (2 Courses + 206 questions) (6 Courses + 429 questions) View all Learning Paths View all New Courses > Back to Menu Course by Languages Course by Languages Course by Languages Course by Languages Course by Languages No Courses at the moment Course by Languages No Courses at the moment Course by Languages Back to Menu Challenges Challenges Challenges Challenges Challenges No Challenges at the moment Challenges No Challenges at the moment Challenges No Challenges at the moment Average Salary (US) $81,000 Prerequisites None Average Salary (US) $81,000 Prerequisites None Learn SQL, a standard data management language to manage, manipulate, and analyze large datasets.
Level: Beginner Duration: 1 month Type: Interactive Language: English Coding Challenges: 60+ Quizzes: 20+ Gain a practical understanding of databases and SQL.
Use SQL to filter and retrieve specific data from a database table.
Perform calculations such as sum, average, count, etc., on a set of values.
Experience how SQL is used in the real world with our practical examples and challenges.
Try this sample challenge to get a feel.
Consider the following table: People Task: Retrieve the records of those people who live in the UK.
The output of the query will be: 
 Average Salary (US) $81,000 Prerequisites None Average Salary (US) $81,000 Prerequisites None This is to certify that has successfully completed the course Date of Issue: Certification Code: SIGNATURE Founder, Chief Executive Officer Programiz Showcase your expertise on LinkedIn and stand out from the crowd.
Impress your potential employers.
This is to certify that has successfully completed the course Date of Issue: Certification Code: SIGNATURE Founder, Chief Executive Officer Programiz Universal Fact: You can't learn to code without actively writing code yourself.
So, how do I start?
SQL is the most popular language in the world of web development and database management.
However, its influence expands far beyond these horizons: it plays a pivotal role in virtually every job that revolves around data.
So, SQL's impact extends to diverse sectors such as sales, finance, and healthcare.
For instance, if you're a marketer, you can use SQL to analyze customer data, monitor sales trends, and finely categorize customers for precise and targeted marketing.
Thus, SQL professionals are in high demand across various industries thanks to the ever-increasing importance of data.
So whether you are seeking a new opportunity or aiming for career growth, mastering SQL can lead to better job prospects, higher salary increments, and increased chances of promotion.
Ayushma Malla ThakuriNepal Aaron SangUSA Landan DevenciaUSA Ayushma Malla ThakuriNepal Aaron SangUSA Landan DevenciaUSA Ayushma Malla ThakuriNepal Aaron SangUSA Landan DevenciaUSA Ayushma Malla ThakuriNepal Since all organizations need to maintain data, SQL is used in almost all industries today.
These are some of the most important fields that require SQL: If you are already familiar with programming concepts, you can expect to grasp the basics of SQL within a few weeks.
However, if you are a beginner learning SQL for the first time, it may take anywhere from 1 to 3 months, depending on your learning pace.
This course is for Beginner programmers who want to master SQL.
Students who are taking databases or SQL as a course in their studies.
Job seekers looking to strengthen their SQL skills for better job opportunities.