Try Programiz PRO Learn Python practically 
                and Get Certified.
Learn Python practically 
                        and Get Certified.
An exception is an unexpected event that occurs during program execution.
For example, The above code causes an exception as it is not possible to divide a number by 0.
Let's learn about Python Exceptions in detail.
Errors that occur at runtime (after passing the syntax test) are called exceptions or logical errors.
For instance, they occur when we Whenever these types of runtime errors occur, Python creates an exception object.
If not handled properly, it prints a traceback to that error along with some details about why that error occurred.
Let's look at how Python treats these errors: Output  Here, while trying to divide 7 / 0, the program throws a system exception ZeroDivisionError Illegal operations can raise exceptions.
There are plenty of built-in exceptions in Python that are raised when corresponding errors occur.
We can view all the built-in exceptions using the built-in local() function as follows: Here, locals()['__builtins__'] will return a module of built-in exceptions, functions, and attributes and dir allows us to list these attributes as strings.
Some of the common built-in exceptions in Python programming along with the error that cause them are listed below: If required, we can also define our own exceptions in Python.
To learn more about them, visit Python User-defined Exceptions.
We can handle these built-in and user-defined exceptions in Python using try, except and finally statements.
To learn more about them, visit Python try, except and finally statements.
Errors represent conditions such as compilation error, syntax error, error in the logical part of the code, library incompatibility, infinite recursion, etc.
Errors are usually beyond the control of the programmer and we should not try to handle errors.
Exceptions can be caught and handled by the program.
Now we know about exceptions, we will learn about handling exceptions in the next tutorial.
Sorry about that.
Python Tutorial Python Custom Exceptions Python Tutorial Python Exception Handling   Python Library Python open() Python Tutorial List of Keywords in Python © Parewa Labs Pvt.
Ltd. All rights reserved.