Try Programiz PRO Learn Python practically 
                and Get Certified.
Learn Python practically 
                        and Get Certified.
To simply put it, a namespace is a collection of names.
In Python, we can imagine a namespace as a mapping of every name we have defined to corresponding objects.
It is used to store the values of variables and other objects in the program, and to associate them with a specific name.
This allows us to use the same name for different variables or objects in different parts of your code, without causing any conflicts or confusion.
A namespace containing all the built-in names is created when we start the Python interpreter and exists as long as the interpreter runs.
This is the reason that built-in functions like id(), print() etc.
are always available to us from any part of the program.
Each module creates its own global namespace.
These different namespaces are isolated.
Hence, the same name that may exist in different modules does not collide.
Modules can have various functions and classes.
A local namespace is created when a function is called, which has all the names defined in it.
Similar is the case with class.
The following diagram may help to clarify this concept.
Although there are various unique namespaces defined, we may not be able to access all of them from every part of the program.
The concept of scope comes into play.
A scope is the portion of a program from where a namespace can be accessed directly without any prefix.
At any given moment, there are at least three nested scopes.
When a reference is made inside a function, the name is searched in the local namespace, then in the global namespace and finally in the built-in namespace.
If there is a function inside another function, a new scope is nested inside the local scope.
Output In the above example, there are three separate namespaces: the global namespace, the local namespace within the outer function, and the local namespace within the inner function.
Here, When the code is executed, the global_var global variable is printed first, followed by the local variable: outer_var and inner_var when the outer and inner functions are called.
Output Here, when the function is called, the global keyword is used to indicate that global_var is a global variable, and its value is modified to 30.
So, when the code is executed, global_var is printed first with a value of 10, then the function is called and the global variable is modified to 30 from the inside of the function.
And finally the modified value of global_var is printed again.
Also Read: Sorry about that.
Python Tutorial Python Global Keyword  Python Tutorial  Python Variable Scope Python Library Python globals() Python Library Python locals() © Parewa Labs Pvt.
Ltd. All rights reserved.