Try Programiz PRO Learn Python practically 
                and Get Certified.
Learn Python practically 
                        and Get Certified.
In the previous tutorial, we learned about different built-in exceptions in Python and why it is important to handle exceptions.
However, sometimes we may need to create our own custom exceptions that serve our purpose.
In Python, we can define custom exceptions by creating a new class that is derived from the built-in Exception class.
Here's the syntax to define custom exceptions, Here, CustomError is a user-defined error which inherits from the Exception class.
Note: Output If the user input input_num is greater than 18, If the user input input_num is smaller than 18, In the above example, we have defined the custom exception InvalidAgeException by creating a new class that is derived from the built-in Exception class.
Here, when input_num is smaller than 18, this code generates an exception.
When an exception occurs, the rest of the code inside the try block is skipped.
The except block catches the user-defined InvalidAgeException exception and statements inside the except block are executed.
We can further customize this class to accept other arguments as per our needs.
To learn about customizing the Exception classes, you need to have the basic knowledge of Object-Oriented programming.
Visit Python Object Oriented Programming to learn about Object-Oriented programming in Python.
Let's see an example, Output Here, we have overridden the constructor of the Exception class to accept our own custom arguments salary and message.
Then, the constructor of the parent Exception class is called manually with the self.message argument using super().
The custom self.salary attribute is defined to be used later.
The inherited __str__ method of the Exception class is then used to display the corresponding message when SalaryNotInRangeError is raised.
Also Read: Sorry about that.
Python Tutorial Python Exception Handling   Python Tutorial Python Exceptions Python Library Python Dictionary get() Python Library Python open() © Parewa Labs Pvt.
Ltd. All rights reserved.