Try Programiz PRO Learn Python practically 
                and Get Certified.
Learn Python practically 
                        and Get Certified.
In Python, a decorator is a design pattern that allows you to modify the functionality of a function by wrapping it in another function.
The outer function is called the decorator, which takes the original function as an argument and returns a modified version of it.
Before we learn about decorators, we need to understand a few important concepts related to Python functions.
Also, remember that everything in Python is an object, even functions are objects.
We can include one function inside another, known as a nested function.
For example, Here, we have created the inner() function inside the outer() function.
We can pass a function as an argument to another function in Python.
For Example, Output In the above example, the calculate() function takes a function as its argument.
While calling calculate(), we are passing the add() function as the argument.
In the calculate() function, arguments: func, x, y become add, 4, and 6 respectively.
And hence, func(x, y) becomes add(4, 6) which returns 10.
In Python, we can also return a function as a return value.
For example, In the above example, the return hello statement returns the inner hello() function.
This function is now assigned to the greet variable.
That's why, when we call greet() as a function, we get the output.
As mentioned earlier, A Python decorator is a function that takes in a function and returns it by adding some functionality.
In fact, any object which implements the special __call__() method is termed callable.
So, in the most basic sense, a decorator is a callable that returns a callable.
Basically, a decorator takes in a function, adds some functionality and returns it.
Here, we have created two functions: We are calling the ordinary() function normally, so we get the output "I am ordinary".
Now, let's call it using the decorator function.
Output In the example shown above, make_pretty() is a decorator.
Notice the code, Here, we are actually calling the inner() function, where we are printing Instead of assigning the function call to a variable, Python provides a much more elegant way to achieve this functionality using the @ symbol.
For example, Output Here, the ordinary() function is decorated with the make_pretty() decorator using the @make_pretty syntax, which is equivalent to calling ordinary = make_pretty(ordinary).
The above decorator was simple and it only worked with functions that did not have any parameters.
What if we had functions that took in parameters like: This function has two parameters, a and b.
We know it will give an error if we pass in b as 0.
Now let's make a decorator to check for this case that will cause the error.
Output Here, when we call the divide() function with the arguments (2,5), the inner() function defined in the smart_divide() decorator is called instead.
This inner() function calls the original divide() function with the arguments 2 and 5 and returns the result, which is 0.4.
Similarly, When we call the divide() function with the arguments (2,0), the inner() function checks that b is equal to 0 and prints an error message before returning None.
Multiple decorators can be chained in Python.
To chain decorators in Python, we can apply multiple decorators to a single function by placing them one after the other, with the most inner decorator being applied first.
Output The above syntax of, is equivalent to The order in which we chain decorators matter.
If we had reversed the order as, The output would be: Also Read: Sorry about that.
Python Tutorial Python Closures Python Tutorial Python Function Arguments Python Tutorial  Python @property decorator  Python Tutorial Python *args and **kwargs © Parewa Labs Pvt.
Ltd. All rights reserved.