Try Programiz PRO Learn Python practically 
                and Get Certified.
Learn Python practically 
                        and Get Certified.
Python lists are one of the most commonly used and versatile built-in types.
They allow us to store multiple items in a single variable.
We create a list by placing elements inside square brackets [], separated by commas.
For example, Here, the ages list has three items.
In Python, lists can store data of different data types.
We can use the built-in list() function to convert other iterables (strings, dictionaries, tuples, etc.)
to a list.
Lists are: Each element in a list is associated with a number, known as a index.
The index always starts from 0.
The first element of a list is at index 0, the second element is at index 1, and so on.
We use index numbers to access list elements.
For example, Python also supports negative indexing.
The index of the last element is -1, the second-last element is -2, and so on.
Negative indexing makes it easy to access list items from last.
Let's see an example, In Python, it is possible to access a section of items from the list using the slicing operator :.
For example, Output To learn more about slicing, visit Python program to slice lists.
Note: If the specified index does not exist in a list, Python throws the IndexError exception.
We use the append() method to add an element to the end of a Python list.
For example, Output The insert() method adds an element at the specified index.
For example, Output We use the extend() method to add elements to a list from other iterables.
For example, Output We can change the items of a list by assigning new values using the = operator.
For example, Output Here, we have replaced the element at index 2: 'Green' with 'Blue'.
We can remove an item from a list using the remove() method.
For example, The del statement removes one or more items from a list.
For example,  Output Note: We can also use the del statement to delete the entire list.
For example, We can use the built-in len() function to find the number of elements in a list.
For example, We can use a for loop to iterate over the elements of a list.
For example, Output Python has many useful list methods that make it really easy to work with lists.
List Comprehension is a concise and elegant way to create a list.
For example, To learn more, visit Python List Comprehension.
We use the in keyword to check if an item exists in the list.
For example, Here, Note: Lists are similar to arrays in other programming languages.
When people refer to arrays in Python, they often mean lists, even though there is a numeric array type in Python.
Also Read Sorry about that.
Python Library Python List pop() Python Library Python List insert() Python Library Python List extend() Python Tutorial Python Tuple © Parewa Labs Pvt.
Ltd. All rights reserved.