Back to Menu Earn professional certification, create projects & build a portfolio with guided Learning Paths.
(5 Courses + 339 questions) (7 Courses + 411 questions) (2 Courses + 206 questions) (6 Courses + 429 questions) View all Learning Paths View all New Courses > Back to Menu Course by Languages Course by Languages Course by Languages Course by Languages Course by Languages No Courses at the moment Course by Languages No Courses at the moment Course by Languages Back to Menu Challenges Challenges Challenges Challenges Challenges No Challenges at the moment Challenges No Challenges at the moment Challenges No Challenges at the moment Average Salary (US) $113,000 Prerequisites Average Salary (US) $113,000 Prerequisites Learn Data Structures and Algorithms with Python to master the art of writing highly efficient code and ace your coding interviews.
Level: Intermediate Duration: 2 months Type: Interactive Language: English Coding Challenges: 95+ Quizzes: 165+ Make your long loops short, elegant, and easy to read.
Analyze how much time and memory it takes to execute your code.
Search for specific data efficiently.
Experience how data structures & algorithms are used in the real world with our practical examples and challenges.
Try this sample challenge to get a feel.
Average Salary (US) $113,000 Prerequisites Average Salary (US) $113,000 Prerequisites THIS IS TO CERTIFY THAT has sucessfully completed the Professional Certificate Date of Issue: Certification Code: SIGNATURE Founder, Chief Executive Officer Programiz Showcase your expertise on LinkedIn and stand out from the crowd.
Impress your potential employers.
THIS IS TO CERTIFY THAT has sucessfully completed the Professional Certificate Date of Issue: Certification Code: SIGNATURE Founder, Chief Executive Officer Programiz Universal Fact: You can't learn to code without actively writing code yourself.
So, how do I start?
Knowing a programming language is just the first step on your programming journey.
To stand out as a programmer, knowledge of Data Structures and Algorithms (DSA) is essential.
DSA helps you understand, analyze and optimize your code.
Imagine you need to travel from New York to California; you can reach California by car, bus, train, or flight.
Flying is the fastest way to get to California, but it is also the most expensive.
So, just as flying suits those who prioritize speed while trains cater to budget-conscious travelers, programming offers various approaches to solving a single problem.
By understanding DSA, you acquire the expertise to select the most suitable solution for your program.
Additionally, you develop the ability to evaluate your algorithms' computational speed and memory consumption.
These proficiencies are the cornerstones of proficient coding, which is why most software engineering interviews test your knowledge of DSA.
So, a good understanding of DSA will make you a better programmer and increase your chances of landing your dream programming job.
DSA is indeed a bit more challenging compared to learning the basics of a programming language.
However, with practice and dedication, you can master the core concepts of DSA.
Since designing data structures and algorithms consists of implementing programming logic, beginner coders won't have a hard time once they understand the theory behind the subject.
In other words, the challenge is to understand the theory and concept behind a particular data structure or algorithm.
Once that's done, you can simply implement them with beginner-level programming.
Doesn't sound very hard now, does it?
The duration depends on your learning pace and dedication.
On average, it takes 3-6 months to learn DSA.
You can master DSA by following the guideline we've provided below: This course is for