Try Programiz PRO Learn Python practically 
                and Get Certified.
Learn Python practically 
                        and Get Certified.
Python programming provides us with a built-in @property decorator which makes usage of getter and setters much easier in Object-Oriented Programming.
Before going into details on what @property decorator is, let us first build an intuition on why it would be needed in the first place.
Let us assume that we decide to make a class that stores the temperature in degrees Celsius.
And, it would also implement a method to convert the temperature into degrees Fahrenheit.
One way of doing this is as follows: We can make objects out of this class and manipulate the temperature attribute as we wish: Output Here, the extra decimal places when converting into Fahrenheit is due to the Floating Point Arithmetic Error.
So, whenever we assign or retrieve any object attribute like temperature as shown above, Python searches it in the object's built-in __dict__ dictionary attribute as Therefore, human.temperature internally becomes human.__dict__['temperature'].
Suppose we want to extend the usability of the Celsius class defined above.
We know that the temperature of any object cannot reach below -273.15 degrees Celsius.
Let's update our code to implement this value constraint.
An obvious solution to the above restriction will be to hide the attribute temperature (make it private) and define new getter and setter methods to manipulate it.
This can be done as follows: As we can see, the above method introduces two new get_temperature() and set_temperature() methods.
Furthermore, temperature was replaced with _temperature.
An underscore _ at the beginning is used to denote private variables in Python.
Now, let's use this implementation: Output This update successfully implemented the new restriction.
We are no longer allowed to set the temperature below -273.15 degrees Celsius.
Note: The private variables don't actually exist in Python.
There are simply norms to be followed.
The language itself doesn't apply any restrictions.
However, the bigger problem with the above update is that all the programs that implemented our previous class have to modify their code from obj.temperature to obj.get_temperature() and all expressions like obj.temperature = val to obj.set_temperature(val).
This refactoring can cause problems while dealing with hundreds of thousands of lines of codes.
All in all, our new update was not backwards compatible.
This is where @property comes to rescue.
A pythonic way to deal with the above problem is to use the property class.
Here is how we can update our code: We added the print() function inside get_temperature() and set_temperature() to clearly observe that they are being executed.
The last line of the code makes a property object temperature.
Simply put, property attaches some code (get_temperature and set_temperature) to the member attribute accesses (temperature).
Let's use this update code: Output As we can see, any code that retrieves the value of temperature will automatically call get_temperature() instead of a dictionary (__dict__) look-up.
Similarly, any code that assigns a value to temperature will automatically call set_temperature().
We can even see above that set_temperature() was called even when we created an object.
Can you guess why?
The reason is that when an object is created, the __init__() method gets called.
This method has the line self.temperature = temperature.
This expression automatically calls set_temperature().
Similarly, any access like c.temperature automatically calls get_temperature().
This is what property does.
By using property, we can see that no modification is required in the implementation of the value constraint.
Thus, our implementation is backward compatible.
Note: The actual temperature value is stored in the private _temperature variable.
The temperature attribute is a property object which provides an interface to this private variable.
In Python, property() is a built-in function that creates and returns a property object.
The syntax of this function is: Here, As seen from the implementation, these function arguments are optional.
A property object has three methods, getter(), setter(), and deleter() to specify fget, fset and fdel at a later point.
This means, the line: can be broken down as: These two pieces of code are equivalent.
Programmers familiar with Python Decorators can recognize that the above construct can be implemented as decorators.
We can even not define the names get_temperature and set_temperature as they are unnecessary and pollute the class namespace.
For this, we reuse the temperature name while defining our getter and setter functions.
Let's look at how to implement this as a decorator: Output The above implementation is simple and efficient.
It is the recommended way to use property.
Sorry about that.
Python Library Python property() Python Tutorial Python Classes and Objects Python Library Python setattr() Python Tutorial Python Decorators © Parewa Labs Pvt.
Ltd. All rights reserved.