Try Programiz PRO Learn Python practically 
                and Get Certified.
Learn Python practically 
                        and Get Certified.
In Python, we can simply use the print() function to print output.
For example, Here, the print() function displays the string enclosed inside the single quotation.
Syntax of print() In the above code, the print() function is taking a single parameter.
However, the actual syntax of the print function accepts 5 parameters Here, Output In the above example, the print() statement only includes the object to be printed.
Here, the value for end is not used.
Hence, it takes the default value '\n'.
So we get the output in two different lines.
Output Notice that we have included the end= ' ' after the end of the first print() statement.
Hence, we get the output in a single line separated by space.
Output In the above example, the print() statement includes multiple items separated by a comma.
Notice that we have used the optional parameter sep= ". "
inside the print() statement.
Hence, the output includes items separated by .
not comma.
We can also use the print() function to print Python variables.
For example, Output We can also join two strings together inside the print() statement.
For example, Output Here, Sometimes we would like to format our output to make it look attractive.
This can be done by using the str.format() method.
For example, Here, the curly braces {} are used as placeholders.
We can specify the order in which they are printed by using numbers (tuple index).
To learn more about formatting the output, visit Python String format().
While programming, we might want to take the input from the user.
In Python, we can use the input() function.
Syntax of input() Here, prompt is the string we wish to display on the screen.
It is optional.
Output In the above example, we have used the input() function to take input from the user and stored the user input in the num variable.
It is important to note that the entered value 10 is a string, not a number.
So, type(num) returns <class 'str'>.
To convert user input into a number we can use int() or float() functions as: Here, the data type of the user input is converted from string to integer .
Sorry about that.
Python Library Python print() Python Library Python input() Python Tutorial Python String Interpolation Python Library Python exec() © Parewa Labs Pvt.
Ltd. All rights reserved.