Try Programiz PRO Learn Python practically 
                and Get Certified.
Learn Python practically 
                        and Get Certified.
In Python, a lambda function is a special type of function without the function name.
For example, Here, we have created a lambda function that prints 'Hello World'.
Before you learn about lambdas, make sure to know about Python Functions.
We use the lambda keyword instead of def to create a lambda function.
Here's the syntax to declare the lambda function: Here, Let's see an example, Here, we have defined a lambda function and assigned it to the variable named greet.
To execute this lambda function, we need to call it.
Here's how we can call the lambda function  The lambda function above simply prints the text 'Hello World'.
Note: This lambda function doesn't have any argument.
In the above example, we have defined a lambda function and assigned it to the greet variable.
When we call the lambda function, the print() statement inside the lambda function is executed.
Similar to normal functions, a lambda function can also accept arguments.
For example, In the above example, we have assigned a lambda function to the greet_user variable.
Here, name after the lambda keyword specifies that the lambda function accepts the argument named name.
Notice the call of the lambda function, Here, we have passed a string value 'Delilah' to our lambda function.
Finally, the statement inside the lambda function is executed.
The filter() function in Python takes in a function and an iterable (lists, tuples, and strings) as arguments.
The function is called with all the items in the list, and a new list is returned, which contains items for which the function evaluates to True.
Let's see an example, Here, the filter() function returns only even numbers from a list.
The map() function in Python takes in a function and an iterable (lists, tuples, and strings) as arguments.
The function is called with all the items in the list, and a new list is returned, which contains items returned by that function for each item.
Let's see an example, Here, the map() function doubles all the items in a list.
Also Read: Sorry about that.
Python Library Python map() Function Python Library Python filter() Python Tutorial Python List Comprehension Python Library Python min() © Parewa Labs Pvt.
Ltd. All rights reserved.