Try Programiz PRO Learn Python practically 
                and Get Certified.
Learn Python practically 
                        and Get Certified.
A linked list is a linear data structure that includes a series of connected nodes.
Here, each node stores the data and the address of the next node.
For example, You have to start somewhere, so we give the address of the first node a special name called HEAD.
Also, the last node in the linked list can be identified because its next portion points to NULL.
Linked lists can be of multiple types: singly, doubly, and circular linked list.
In this article, we will focus on the singly linked list.
To learn about other types, visit Types of Linked List.
Note: You might have played the game Treasure Hunt, where each clue includes the information about the next clue.
That is how the linked list operates.
Let's see how each node of the linked list is represented.
Each node consists: We wrap both the data item and the next node reference in a struct as: Understanding the structure of a linked list node is the key to having a grasp on it.
Each struct node has a data item and a pointer to another struct node.
Let us create a simple Linked List with three items to understand how this works.
If you didn't understand any of the lines above, all you need is a refresher on pointers and structs.
In just a few steps, we have created a simple linked list with three nodes.
The power of a linked list comes from the ability to break the chain and rejoin it.
E.g.
if you wanted to put an element 4 between 1 and 2, the steps would be: Doing something similar in an array would have required shifting the positions of all the subsequent elements.
In python and Java, the linked list can be implemented using classes as shown in the codes below.
Lists are one of the most popular and efficient data structures, with implementation in every programming language like C, C++, Python, Java, and C#.
Apart from that, linked lists are a great way to learn how pointers work.
By practicing how to manipulate linked lists, you can prepare yourself to learn more advanced data structures like graphs and trees.
Time Complexity Space Complexity: O(n) Sorry about that.
DS & Algorithms Types of Linked List - Singly linked, doubly linked and circular DS & Algorithms Linked List Operations: Traverse, Insert and Delete DS & Algorithms Circular Linked List DS & Algorithms Doubly Linked List © Parewa Labs Pvt.
Ltd. All rights reserved.