Try Programiz PRO Learn Python practically 
                and Get Certified.
Learn Python practically 
                        and Get Certified.
The CSV (Comma Separated Values) format is a common and straightforward way to store tabular data.
To represent a CSV file, it should have the .csv file extension.
Now, let's proceed with an example of the info .csv file and its data.
Python provides a dedicated csv module to work with csv files.
The module includes various methods to perform different operations.
However, we first need to import the module using: The csv module provides the csv.reader() function to read a CSV file.
Suppose we have a csv file named people.csv with the following entries.
Now, let's read this csv file.
Output  Here, we have opened the people.csv file in reading mode using: We then used the csv.reader() function to read the file.
To learn more about reading csv files, Python Reading CSV Files.
The csv.DictReader() class can be used to read the CSV file into a dictionary, offering a more user-friendly and accessible method.
Suppose we want to read the following people.csv file.
Now let's read this file.
Output In this example, we have read data from the people.csv file and print each row as a dictionary.
Here, we used csv.DictReader(file), which treats the first row of the CSV file as column headers and each subsequent row as a data record.
The csv module provides the csv.writer() function to write to a CSV file.
Let's look at an example.
When we run the above program, a protagonist.csv file is created with the following content: In this example, we have created the CSV file named protagonist.csv in the writing mode.
We then used the csv.writer() function to write to the file.
To learn more about writing to a csv file, Python Writing CSV Files.
Here,  We can use the csv.DictWriter() class to write dictionary data into a CSV file, which is useful for more structured data.
For example, The program creates a players.csv file with the following entries: In this example, we have written data to the players.csv file using csv.DictWriter(file, fieldnames=fieldnames).
The writer.writeheader() function writes these column headers to the first row of the file.
And each call to writerow() adds a new row to the CSV file, where each dictionary represents a record with player_name and fide_rating as keys corresponding to the columns.
Pandas is a popular data science library in Python for data manipulation and analysis.
If we are working with huge chunks of data, it's better to use pandas to handle CSV files for ease and efficiency.
Note: Before we can use pandas, we need to install and import it.
To learn more, visit Install and Import  Pandas.
To read the CSV file using pandas, we can use the read_csv() function.
Here, the program reads people.csv from the current directory.
To write to a CSV file, we need to use the to_csv() function of a DataFrame.
Here, we have created a DataFrame using the pd.DataFrame() method.
Then, the to_csv() function for this object is called, to write into person.csv.
Also Read Sorry about that.
Python Tutorial Working with CSV files in Python Python Tutorial Writing CSV files in Python Python Tutorial Reading CSV files in Python Python Library Python open() © Parewa Labs Pvt.
Ltd. All rights reserved.