Back to Menu Earn professional certification, create projects & build a portfolio with guided Learning Paths.
(5 Courses + 339 questions) (7 Courses + 411 questions) (2 Courses + 206 questions) (6 Courses + 429 questions) View all Learning Paths View all New Courses > Back to Menu Course by Languages Course by Languages Course by Languages Course by Languages Course by Languages No Courses at the moment Course by Languages No Courses at the moment Course by Languages Back to Menu Challenges Challenges Challenges Challenges Challenges No Challenges at the moment Challenges No Challenges at the moment Challenges No Challenges at the moment Average Salary (US) $114,997 Prerequisites None Average Salary (US) $114,997 Prerequisites None Learn to code in C, a general-purpose language used for building operating systems, compilers, web browsers, and other high-performance software.
Level: Beginner Duration: 2 months Type: Interactive Language: English Coding Challenges: 120+ Quizzes: 80+ Build a strong C programming foundation by mastering the basics.
Work with different types of data and store them for future use.
Learn to apply programming logic—the fundamental essence of programming.
Write and evaluate your code using our real-time online editor—no tedious installation necessary on your end.
Here’s a sneak peek Projects you will create: THIS IS TO CERTIFY THAT has sucessfully completed the Professional Certificate Date of Issue: Certification Code: SIGNATURE Founder, Chief Executive Officer Programiz Showcase your expertise on LinkedIn and stand out from the crowd.
Impress your potential employers.
THIS IS TO CERTIFY THAT has sucessfully completed the Professional Certificate Date of Issue: Certification Code: SIGNATURE Founder, Chief Executive Officer Programiz Universal Fact: You can't learn to code without actively writing code yourself.
So, how do I start?
As one of the oldest and most popular programming languages, C offers many unique benefits you won't get from other languages.
The most important ones are: Compared to other programming languages, C might appear more challenging due to its complex syntax and strict typing system.
However, you can become comfortable with C with consistent practice and dedication.
But if you are particularly interested in testing, Python might be a suitable option to explore as it is relatively easy to learn and widely used for test automation.
Programmers prefer to use C Programming to develop high-performance system software, drivers, and utilities.
Here are a few areas where C Programming is used: The duration depends on your learning pace and dedication.
On average, it takes 2-3 months to learn C. This course is for