Back to Menu Earn professional certification, create projects & build a portfolio with guided Learning Paths.
(5 Courses + 339 questions) (7 Courses + 411 questions) (2 Courses + 206 questions) (6 Courses + 429 questions) View all Learning Paths View all New Courses > Back to Menu Course by Languages Course by Languages Course by Languages Course by Languages Course by Languages No Courses at the moment Course by Languages No Courses at the moment Course by Languages Back to Menu Challenges Challenges Challenges Challenges Challenges No Challenges at the moment Challenges No Challenges at the moment Challenges No Challenges at the moment Average Salary (US) $113,653 Prerequisites None Average Salary (US) $113,653 Prerequisites None Learn to code in Python—a beginner-friendly programming language used in data analysis, web development, task automation, and many other fields.
Level: Beginner Duration: 2 months Type: Interactive Language: English Coding Challenges: 235+ Quizzes: 95+ Lay a strong programming foundation that will serve you in the long run.
Learn to apply programming logic—the fundamental essence of programming.
Ensure your code is easy to understand and work with by using the power of functions.
Write and evaluate your code using our real-time online editor—no tedious installation necessary on your end.
Here’s a sneak peek Projects you will create: THIS IS TO CERTIFY THAT has sucessfully completed the Professional Certificate Date of Issue: Certification Code: SIGNATURE Founder, Chief Executive Officer Programiz Showcase your expertise on LinkedIn and stand out from the crowd.
Impress your potential employers.
THIS IS TO CERTIFY THAT has sucessfully completed the Professional Certificate Date of Issue: Certification Code: SIGNATURE Founder, Chief Executive Officer Programiz Universal Fact: You can't learn to code without actively writing code yourself.
So, how do I start?
If you are a beginner: Python is arguably one of the easiest programming languages to learn, if not the easiest.
Starting with an easy language like Python encourages you to focus on programming logic rather than getting caught up in the nitty-gritty of syntax.
This approach helps you build a strong programming foundation.
Once you learn Python, switching to another programming language becomes a breeze, so it also sets you up for success in the long run.
If you want to pursue a career in programming: Python has a lot of job opportunities.
Companies of all sizes use Python for data analytics, machine learning, web development, and task automation.
Based on data from Indeed and Glassdoor, there are currently over 25,000 active Python-related jobs with a median salary of $113,653.
Given its high demand, mastering Python will significantly improve your chances of landing a lucrative job in the tech industry.
Python is relatively easy to learn because of its simple, readable, and English-like syntax.
Readability reduces the learning curve and helps newcomers grasp the fundamentals of coding more quickly.
Also, Python's intuitive nature makes it a terrific starting point.
The language allows you to channel most of your mental energy into coming to terms with the problem-solving and logic-building aspects of programming and not fretting over syntax.
The duration depends on your learning pace and dedication.
On average, it takes 3-6 months to learn Python.
In just 30 years, Python has become a go-to programming language because of its uses in various areas.
Here are a few: This course is for