Try Programiz PRO Learn Python practically 
                and Get Certified.
Learn Python practically 
                        and Get Certified.
Python is a versatile, high-level programming language that is widely supported across all major operating systems.
To execute Python code, you need to have a Python interpreter installed on your system.
However, if you want to start immediately, you can use our free Online Python Complier that enables you to run Python code directly in your browser—no installation required.
For those who prefer to install Python locally, this guide will walk you through the installation process on Windows, macOS, and Linux (Ubuntu).
To install Python on your Windows, just follow these steps: Here is a detailed explanation of each of the steps: Go to the VS Code Official website and download the Windows installer.
Once the download is complete, run the installer and follow the installation process.
Click Finish to complete the installation process Go to the official Python website and download the latest version (Python 3.12.2 at the time of writing this tutorial) for Windows.
The website automatically detects your operating system and gives you the right installer.
Now, go to your download folder and run the installer you just downloaded.
Depending on your security settings, you might be prompted to allow access.
Simply allow it and proceed.
Once you have run the installer, you will come across this screen.
On the screen, you will see two options: Install Now and Customize Installation.
We suggest you skip all customization steps and simply click Install Now.
This makes it easier to run a Python Program from the command prompt (cmd) directly without specifying the full path of the Python executable.
After using this option, Python will be successfully installed in your device.
Python Default Installation
 After the installation is complete, you can verify whether Python is installed by using the following command in the command prompt.
python --version Note: The version number might differ from the one above, depending on your installed version.
Now, you are all set to run Python programs on your device.
To install Python on your Mac, just follow these steps: Here is a detailed explanation of each of the steps: Go to the VS Code official website and download the zipped file.
Once the download is complete, open the zipped file.
In Finder, open a new window and navigate to the Applications folder.
Drag the VS Code application from the zip file into the Applications folder to install it.
You can now launch VS Code directly from the Applications folder.
Since macOS often comes with an older version of Python (Python 2.x) pre-installed on it, you can check the current version by using the following command in the Terminal app.
or, for Python 3: If you are satisfied with the installed version of Python 3.x, you can skip the remaining steps.
Otherwise, follow the steps below.
Visit the official Python website and download the latest version (Python 3.12.2 at the time of writing this tutorial) for mac.
The website automatically detects your operating system and gives you the right installer.
Go to your downloads folder and run the installer you just downloaded.
You will be prompted to agree to the software license agreement, choose the installation location (we recommend using default location), and enter your administrator password.
Simply proceed through it.
Once the installation is complete, you can verify whether Python is installed by using the following command in the Terminal app.
Note: The version number might differ from the one above, depending on your installed version.
Linux has various distributions, and the installation process differs slightly from each other.
For now, we will focus on Ubuntu distribution.
Most Linux distributions come pre-installed with Python.
However, if you need to install or upgrade follow these steps: Here is a detailed explanation of each of the steps: Open the Terminal and type This command updates your package lists to ensure you get the latest versions of your software.
Proceed to install VS Code with You can check the current version by using the following command in the terminal window.
or, for Python 3 If you are satisfied with the installed version of Python, you can skip the remaining steps.
Otherwise, follow the steps below.
Update the package list to ensure you get the latest version available: Install Python 3: This command installs Python along pip (Python package installer), documentation, and other useful packages.
Wait until the installation finishes to start using Python.
Once the installation is complete, you can verify whether Python is installed by using the following command in the Terminal app.
Now, you are all set to run Python programs on your device.
First open VS Code, click on the File in the top menu and then select New File.
Then, save this file with a .py extension by clicking on File again, then Save As, and type your filename ending in .py.
(Here, we are saving it as hello.py) Now, write the following code into your file:  print("Hello World")  Then click on the run button on the top right side of your screen.
You should see Hello World printed to the command prompt.
Note: Type python3 in command prompt for macOS and Linux.
Now that you have set everything up to run Python programs on your computer,  you'll be learning how the basic program works in Python in the next tutorial.
Sorry about that.
Python Tutorial Python pip Python Tutorial Python IDEs and Code Editors Python Library Python List reverse() Python Tutorial Python Matrices and NumPy Arrays © Parewa Labs Pvt.
Ltd. All rights reserved.