Try Programiz PRO Learn Python practically 
                and Get Certified.
Learn Python practically 
                        and Get Certified.
As our program grows bigger, it may contain many lines of code.
Instead of putting everything in a single file, we can use modules to separate codes in separate files as per their functionality.
This makes our code organized and easier to maintain.
Module is a file that contains code to perform a specific task.
A module may contain variables, functions, classes etc.
Let's see an example, Let us create a module.
Type the following and save it as example.py.
Here, we have defined a function add() inside a module named example.
The function takes in two numbers and returns their sum.
We can import the definitions inside a module to another module or the interactive interpreter in Python.
We use the import keyword to do this.
To import our previously defined module example, we type the following in the Python prompt.
This does not import the names of the functions defined in example directly in the current symbol table.
It only imports the module name example there.
Using the module name we can access the function using the dot .
operator.
For example: Note: The Python standard library contains well over 200 modules.
We can import a module according to our needs.
Suppose we want to get the value of pi, first we import the math module and use math.pi.
For example, Output In Python, we can also import a module by renaming it.
For example, Here, We have renamed the math module as m. This can save us typing time in some cases.
Note that the name math is not recognized in our scope.
Hence, math.pi is invalid, and m.pi is the correct implementation.
We can import specific names from a module without importing the module as a whole.
For example, Here, we imported only the pi attribute from the math module.
In Python, we can import all names(definitions) from a module using the following construct: Here, we have imported all the definitions from the math module.
This includes all names visible in our scope except those beginning with an underscore(private definitions).
Importing everything with the asterisk (*) symbol is not a good programming practice.
This can lead to duplicate definitions for an identifier.
It also hampers the readability of our code.
In Python, we can use the dir() function to list all the function names in a module.
For example, earlier we have defined a function add() in the module example.
We can use dir in example module in the following way: Here, we can see a sorted list of names (along with add).
All other names that begin with an underscore are default Python attributes associated with the module (not user-defined).
For example, the __name__ attribute contains the name of the module.
All the names defined in our current namespace can be found out using the dir() function without any arguments.
Sorry about that.
Python Tutorial Python Package Python Library Python __import__() Python Tutorial Python Mathematical Functions Python Tutorial Python Main function © Parewa Labs Pvt.
Ltd. All rights reserved.