Try Programiz PRO Learn Python practically 
                and Get Certified.
Learn Python practically 
                        and Get Certified.
The time module in Python provides functions for handling time-related tasks.
The time-related tasks includes, In Python, the time() function returns the number of seconds passed since epoch (the point where time begins).
For the Unix system, January 1, 1970, 00:00:00 at UTC is epoch.
Let's see an example, In the above example, we have used the time.time() function to get the current time in seconds since the epoch, and then printed the result.
The time.ctime() function in Python takes seconds passed since epoch as an argument and returns a string representing local time.
Output Here, we have used the time.ctime() function to convert the time in seconds since the epoch to a readable format, and then printed the result.
The sleep() function suspends (delays) execution of the current thread for the given number of seconds.
Output Here's how this program works: To learn more about sleep(), please visit Python sleep().
The localtime() function takes the number of seconds passed since epoch as an argument and returns struct_time (a tuple containing 9 elements corresponding to struct_time) in local time.
Output  Here, if no argument or None is passed to localtime(), the value returned by time() is used.
The gmtime() function takes the number of seconds passed since epoch as an argument and returns struct_time in UTC.
Output Here, if no argument or None is passed to gmtime(), the value returned by time() is used.
The mktime() function takes struct_time (a tuple containing 9 elements corresponding to struct_time) as an argument and returns the seconds passed since epoch in local time.
The struct_time has the following structure: Let's see an example, Here, we have converted the time_tuple to seconds since the epoch.
In Python, the asctime() function takes struct_time as an argument and returns a string representing it.
Similar to mktime(), the time_tuple has the following structure: Let's see an example, Here, we can see time.asctime() converts the time tuple to a human-readable string.
The strftime() function takes struct_time (or tuple corresponding to it) as an argument and returns a string representing it based on the format code used.
For example, Output Here, %Y, %m, %d, %H etc.
are format codes.
To learn more, visit time.strftime().
The strptime() function parses a string representing time and returns struct_time.
Output Here, strptime() parses a string and convert it to the struct_time object.
Sorry about that.
Python Tutorial Python sleep() Python Tutorial Python datetime Python Tutorial How to get current date and time in Python?
Python Tutorial Python Get Current time © Parewa Labs Pvt.
Ltd. All rights reserved.