Try Programiz PRO Learn Python practically 
                and Get Certified.
Learn Python practically 
                        and Get Certified.
Being an object-oriented language, Python supports class inheritance.
It allows us to create a new class from an existing one.
Here, we are inheriting the sub_class from the super_class.
Note: Before you move forward with inheritance, make sure you know how Python classes and objects work.
Output In the above example, we have derived a subclass Dog from a superclass Animal.
Notice the statements, Here, we are using labrador (object of Dog) to access name and eat() of the Animal class.
This is possible because the subclass inherits all attributes and methods of the superclass.
Also, we have accessed the name attribute inside the method of the Dog class using self.
Inheritance is an is-a relationship.
That is, we use inheritance only if there exists an is-a relationship between two classes.
For example,  Here, Car can inherit from Vehicle, Apple can inherit from Fruit, and so on.
In the previous example, we see the object of the subclass can access the method of the superclass.
However, what if the same method is present in both the superclass and subclass?
In this case, the method in the subclass overrides the method in the superclass.
This concept is known as method overriding in Python.
Output In the above example, the same method eat() is present in both the Dog class and the Animal class.
Now, when we call the eat() method using the object of the Dog subclass, the method of the Dog class is called.
This is because the eat() method of the Dog subclass overrides the same method of the Animal superclass.
Previously we saw that the same method (function) in the subclass overrides the method in the superclass.
However, if we need to access the superclass method from the subclass, we use the super() function.
For example, Output In the above example, the eat() method of the Dog subclass overrides the same method of the Animal superclass.
Inside the Dog class, we have used to call the eat() method of the Animal superclass from the Dog subclass.
So, when we call the eat() method using the labrador object Both the overridden and the superclass version of the eat() method is executed.
To learn more, visit Python super().
There are 5 different types of inheritance in Python.
They are: Also Read: Sorry about that.
Python Library Python super() Python Tutorial Python Multiple Inheritance Python Tutorial Python Object Oriented Programming Python Tutorial Polymorphism in Python © Parewa Labs Pvt.
Ltd. All rights reserved.