Try Programiz PRO Learn Python practically 
                and Get Certified.
Learn Python practically 
                        and Get Certified.
The eval() method parses the expression passed to this method and runs python expression (code) within the program.
The syntax of eval() is: The eval() function takes three parameters: The use of globals and locals will be discussed later in this article.
The eval() method returns the result evaluated from the expression.
Output Here, the eval() function evaluates the expression x + 1 and print() is used to display this value.
Output Consider a situation where you are using a Unix system (macOS, Linux etc) and you have imported the os module.
The os module provides a portable way to use operating system functionalities like reading or writing to a file.
If you allow users to input a value using eval(input()), the user may issue commands to change file or even delete all the files using the command: os.system('rm -rf *').
If you are using eval(input()) in your code, it is a good idea to check which variables and methods the user can use.
You can see which variables and methods are available using dir() method.
Output More often than not, all the available methods and variables used in the expression (first parameter to eval()) may not be needed, or even may have a security hole.
You may need to restrict the use of these methods and variables for eval().
You can do so by passing optional globals and locals parameters (dictionaries) to the eval() function.
If both parameters are omitted (as in our earlier examples), the expression is executed in the current scope.
You can check the available variables and methods using following code: The globals and locals parameters (dictionaries) are used for global and local variables respectively.
If the locals dictionary is omitted, it defaults to globals dictionary.
Meaning, globals will be used for both global and local variables.
Note: You can check the current global and local dictionary in Python using globals() and locals() built-in methods respectively.
Output If you pass an empty dictionary as globals, only the __builtins__ are available to expression (first parameter to the eval()).
Even though we have imported the math module in the above program, expression can't access any functions provided by the math module.
Output Here, the expression can only use the sqrt() and the pow() methods along with __builtins__.
It is also possible to change the name of the method available for the expression as to your wish: Output In the above program, square_root() calculates the square root using sqrt().
However, trying to use sqrt() directly will raise an error.
You can restrict the use of __builtins__ in the expression as follows: You can make needed functions and variables available for use by passing the locals dictionary.
For example: Output In this program, expression can have sqrt() method and variable a only.
All other methods and variables are unavailable.
Restricting the use of eval() by passing globals and locals dictionaries will make your code secure particularly when you are using input provided by the user to the eval() method.
Note: Sometimes, eval() is not secure even with limited names.
When an object and its methods are made accessible, almost anything can be done.
The only secure way is by validating the user input.
Sorry about that.
Python Library Python globals() Python Library Python locals() Python Library Python exec() Python Library Python __import__() © Parewa Labs Pvt.
Ltd. All rights reserved.