Try Programiz PRO Learn Python practically 
                and Get Certified.
Learn Python practically 
                        and Get Certified.
In Python, a string is a sequence of characters.
For example, "hello" is a string containing a sequence of characters 'h', 'e', 'l', 'l', and 'o'.
We use single quotes or double quotes to represent a string in Python.
For example, Here, we have created a string variable named string1.
The variable is initialized with the string "Python Programming".
Output In the above example, we have created string-type variables: name and message with values "Python" and "I love Python" respectively.
Here, we have used double quotes to represent strings, but we can use single quotes too.
We can access the characters in a string in three ways.
Note: If we try to access an index out of the range or use numbers other than an integer, we will get errors.
In Python, strings are immutable.
That means the characters of a string cannot be changed.
For example, Output However, we can assign the variable name to a new string.
For example, We can also create a multiline string in Python.
For this, we use triple double quotes """ or triple single quotes '''.
For example, Output In the above example, anything inside the enclosing triple quotes is one multiline string.
Many operations can be performed with strings, which makes it one of the most used data types in Python.
We use the == operator to compare two strings.
If two strings are equal, the operator returns True.
Otherwise, it returns False.
For example, Output In the above example, In Python, we can join (concatenate) two or more strings using the + operator.
In the above example, we have used the + operator to join two strings: greet and name.
We can iterate through a string using a for loop.
For example, Output In Python, we use the len() method to find the length of a string.
For example, We can test if a substring exists within a string or not, using the keyword in.
Besides those mentioned above, there are various string methods present in Python.
Here are some of those methods: The escape sequence is used to escape some of the characters present inside a string.
Suppose we need to include both a double quote and a single quote inside a string, Since strings are represented by single or double quotes, the compiler will treat "He said, " as a string.
Hence, the above code will cause an error.
To solve this issue, we use the escape character \ in Python.
Here is a list of all the escape sequences supported by Python.
Python f-Strings makes it easy to print values and variables.
For example, Output Here, f'{name} is from {country}' is an f-string.
This new formatting syntax is powerful and easy to use.
From now on, we will use f-Strings to print strings and variables.
Also Read: Sorry about that.
Python Tutorial Python Data Types Python Tutorial  Python Variable Scope Python Tutorial Your First Python Program  Python Library Python String strip() © Parewa Labs Pvt.
Ltd. All rights reserved.