Try Programiz PRO Learn Python practically 
                and Get Certified.
Learn Python practically 
                        and Get Certified.
An adjacency list represents a graph as an array of linked lists.
The index of the array represents a vertex and each element in its linked list represents the other vertices that form an edge with the vertex.
For example, we have a graph below.
We can represent this graph in the form of a linked list on a computer as shown below.
Here, 0, 1, 2, 3 are the vertices and each of them forms a linked list with all of its adjacent vertices.
For instance, vertex 1 has two adjacent vertices 0 and 2.
Therefore, 1 is linked with 0 and 2 in the figure above.
The simplest adjacency list needs a node data structure to store a vertex and a graph data structure to organize the nodes.
We stay close to the basic definition of a graph - a collection of vertices and edges {V, E}.
For simplicity, we use an unlabeled graph as opposed to a labeled one i.e.
the vertices are identified by their indices 0,1,2,3.
Let's dig into the data structures at play here.
Don't let the struct node** adjLists overwhelm you.
All we are saying is we want to store a pointer to struct node*.
This is because we don't know how many vertices the graph will have and so we cannot create an array of Linked Lists at compile time.
It is the same structure but by using the in-built list STL data structures of C++, we make the structure a bit cleaner.
We are also able to abstract the details of the implementation.
We use Java Collections to store the Array of Linked Lists.
The type of LinkedList is determined by what data you want to store in it.
For a labeled graph, you could store a dictionary instead of an Integer There is a reason Python gets so much love.
A simple dictionary of vertices and its edges is a sufficient representation of a graph.
You can make the vertex itself as complex as you want.
Sorry about that.
DS & Algorithms Depth First Search (DFS) DS & Algorithms Graph Data Stucture DS & Algorithms Breadth first search DS & Algorithms Adjacency Matrix © Parewa Labs Pvt.
Ltd. All rights reserved.