Try Programiz PRO Learn Python practically 
                and Get Certified.
Learn Python practically 
                        and Get Certified.
In the last tutorial, we learned about Python OOP.
We know that Python also supports the concept of objects and classes.
An object is simply a collection of data (variables) and methods (functions).
Similarly, a class is a blueprint for that object.
Before we learn about objects, let's first learn about classes in Python.
A class is considered a blueprint of objects.
We can think of the class as a sketch (prototype) of a house.
It contains all the details about the floors, doors, windows, etc.
Based on these descriptions, we build the house; the house is the object.
Since many houses can be made from the same description, we can create many objects from a class.
We use the class keyword to create a class in Python.
For example, Here, we have created a class named ClassName.
Let's see an example, Here, Note: The variables inside a class are called attributes.
An object is called an instance of a class.
Suppose Bike is a class then we can create objects like bike1, bike2, etc from the class.
Here's the syntax to create an object.
Let's see an example, Here, bike1 is the object of the class.
Now, we can use this object to access the class attributes.
We use the .
notation to access the attributes of a class.
For example, Here, we have used bike1.name and bike1.gear to change and access the value of name and gear attributes, respectively.
Output In the above example, we have defined the class named Bike with two attributes: name and gear.
We have also created an object bike1 of the class Bike.
Finally, we have accessed and modified the properties of an object using the .
notation.
We can also create multiple objects from a single class.
For example, Output In the above example, we have created two objects employee1 and employee2 of the Employee class.
We can also define a function inside a Python class.
A Python function defined inside a class is called a method.
Let's see an example, Output In the above example, we have created a class named Room with: Here, we have created an object named study_room from the Room class.
We then used the object to assign values to attributes: length and breadth.
Notice that we have also used the object to call the method inside the class, Here, we have used the .
notation to call the method.
Finally, the statement inside the method is executed.
Earlier we assigned a default value to a class attribute, However, we can also initialize values using the constructors.
For example, Here, __init__() is the constructor function that is called whenever a new object of that class is instantiated.
The constructor above initializes the value of the name attribute.
We have used the self.name to refer to the name attribute of the bike1 object.
If we use a constructor to initialize values inside a class, we need to pass the corresponding value during the object creation of the class.
Here, "Mountain Bike" is passed to the name parameter of __init__().
Also Read: Sorry about that.
Python Tutorial Python Object Oriented Programming Python Library Python object() Python Tutorial Python Inheritance Python Tutorial Polymorphism in Python © Parewa Labs Pvt.
Ltd. All rights reserved.