Try Programiz PRO Learn Python practically 
                and Get Certified.
Learn Python practically 
                        and Get Certified.
A Python dictionary is a collection of items, similar to lists and tuples.
However, unlike lists and tuples, each item in a dictionary is a key-value pair (consisting of a key and a value).
We create a dictionary by placing key: value pairs inside curly brackets {}, separated by commas.
For example, Output The country_capitals dictionary has three elements (key-value pairs), where 'Germany' is the key and 'Berlin' is the value assigned to it and so on.
Python Dictionary
 Notes: Immutable objects can't be changed once created.
Some immutable objects in Python are integer, tuple and string.
In this example, we have used integers, tuples, and strings as keys for the dictionaries.
When we used a list as a key, an error message occurred due to the list's mutable nature.
Note: Dictionary values can be of any data type, including mutable types like lists.
The keys of a dictionary must be unique.
If there are duplicate keys, the later value of the key overwrites the previous value.
Output Here, the key Harry Potter is first assigned to Gryffindor.
However, there is a second entry where Harry Potter is assigned to Slytherin.
As duplicate keys are not allowed in a dictionary, the last entry Slytherin overwrites the previous value Gryffindor.
We can access the value of a dictionary item by placing the key inside square brackets.
Note: We can also use the get() method to access dictionary items.
We can add an item to a dictionary by assigning a value to a new key.
For example,  Output We can use the del statement to remove an element from a dictionary.
For example, Output Note: We can also use the pop() method to remove an item from a dictionary.
If we need to remove all items from a dictionary at once, we can use the clear() method.
Output Python dictionaries are mutable (changeable).
We can change the value of a dictionary element by referring to its key.
For example, Output Note: We can also use the update() method to add or change dictionary items.
A dictionary is an ordered collection of items (starting from Python 3.7), therefore it maintains the order of its items.
We can iterate through dictionary keys one by one using a for loop.
Output We can find the length of a dictionary by using the len() function.
Here are some of the commonly used dictionary methods.
We can check whether a key exists in a dictionary by using the in and not in operators.
Note: The in operator checks whether a key exists; it doesn't check whether a value exists or not.
Sorry about that.
Python Library Python reversed() Python Library Python Dictionary clear() Python Tutorial Python Data Types Python Library Python Dictionary fromkeys() © Parewa Labs Pvt.
Ltd. All rights reserved.