Try Programiz PRO Learn Python practically 
                and Get Certified.
Learn Python practically 
                        and Get Certified.
In Python, a for loop is used to iterate over sequences such as lists, strings, tuples, etc.
Output In the above example, we have created a list called languages.
As the list has 3 elements, the loop iterates 3 times.
The value of i is  Here, val accesses each item of the sequence on each iteration.
The loop continues until we reach the last item in the sequence.
Output Here, we have printed each character of the string language using a for loop.
In Python, the range() function returns a sequence of numbers.
For example, Here, range(4) returns a sequence of 0, 1, 2 ,and 3.
Since the range() function returns a sequence of numbers, we can iterate over it using a for loop.
For example, Output  Here, we used the for loop to iterate over a range from 0 to 3.
This is how the above program works.
A for loop can have an optional else clause.
This else clause executes after the iteration completes.
Output Here, the for loop prints all the items of the digits list.
When the loop finishes, it executes the else block and prints No items left.
Note: The else block will not execute if the for loop is stopped by a break statement.
We can also use for loop to repeat an action a certain number of times.
For example, Output Here, we used the list languages to run the loop three times.
However, we didn't use any of the elements of the list.
In such cases, it is clearer to use the _ (underscore) as the loop variable.
The _ indicates                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                that a loop variable is a placeholder and its value is intentionally being ignored.
For example, Here, the loop still runs three times because there are three elements in the languages list.
Using _ indicates that the loop is there for repetition and not for accessing the elements.
A for loop can also have another for loop inside it.
For each cycle of the outer loop, the inner loop completes its entire sequence of iterations.
For example, Output Also Read: Sorry about that.
Python Library Python range() Function Python Tutorial Python while Loop Python Tutorial Python Iterators Python Tutorial Python break and continue © Parewa Labs Pvt.
Ltd. All rights reserved.