Try Programiz PRO Learn Python practically 
                and Get Certified.
Learn Python practically 
                        and Get Certified.
The Hash table data structure stores elements in key-value pairs where In a hash table, a new index is processed using the keys.
And, the element corresponding to that key is stored in the index.
This process is called hashing.
Let k be a key and h(x) be a hash function.
Here, h(k) will give us a new index to store the element linked with k. To learn more, visit Hashing.
When the hash function generates the same index for multiple keys, there will be a conflict (what value to be stored in that index).
This is called a hash collision.
We can resolve the hash collision using one of the following techniques.
In chaining, if a hash function produces the same index for multiple elements, these elements are stored in the same index by using a doubly-linked list.
If j is the slot for multiple elements, it contains a pointer to the head of the list of elements.
If no element is present, j contains NIL.
Pseudocode for operations Unlike chaining, open addressing doesn't store multiple elements into the same slot.
Here, each slot is either filled with a single key or left NIL.
Different techniques used in open addressing are: In linear probing, collision is resolved by checking the next slot.
h(k, i) = (h′(k) + i) mod m where If a collision occurs at h(k, 0), then h(k, 1) is checked.
In this way, the value of i is incremented linearly.
The problem with linear probing is that a cluster of adjacent slots is filled.
When inserting a new element, the entire cluster must be traversed.
This adds to the time required to perform operations on the hash table.
It works similar to linear probing but the spacing between the slots is increased (greater than one) by using the following relation.
h(k, i) = (h′(k) + c1i + c2i2) mod m where, If a collision occurs after applying a hash function h(k), then another hash function is calculated for finding the next slot.
h(k, i) = (h1(k) + ih2(k)) mod m A good hash function may not prevent the collisions completely however it can reduce the number of collisions.
Here, we will look into different methods to find a good hash function If k is a key and m is the size of the hash table, the hash function h() is calculated as: h(k) = k mod m For example, If the size of a hash table is 10 and k = 112 then h(k) = 112 mod 10 = 2.
The value of m must not be the powers of 2.
This is because the powers of 2 in binary format are 10, 100, 1000, ….
When we find k mod m, we will always get the lower order p-bits.
h(k) = ⌊m(kA mod 1)⌋ where, In Universal hashing, the hash function is chosen at random independent of keys.
Hash tables are implemented where Sorry about that.
DS & Algorithms Hashing DS & Algorithms Bucket Sort Algorithm DS & Algorithms Rabin-Karp Algorithm DS & Algorithms Linked list Data Structure © Parewa Labs Pvt.
Ltd. All rights reserved.