Try Programiz PRO Learn Python practically 
                and Get Certified.
Learn Python practically 
                        and Get Certified.
Red-Black tree is a self-balancing binary search tree in which each node contains an extra bit for denoting the color of the node, either red or black.
A red-black tree satisfies the following properties: An example of a red-black tree is: Each node has the following attributes: How the red-black tree maintains the property of self-balancing?
The red-black color is meant for balancing the tree.
The limitations put on the node colors ensure that any simple path from the root to a leaf is not more than twice as long as any other such path.
It helps in maintaining the self-balancing property of the red-black tree.
Various operations that can be performed on a red-black tree are: In rotation operation, the positions of the nodes of a subtree are interchanged.
Rotation operation is used for maintaining the properties of a red-black tree when they are violated by other operations such as insertion and deletion.
There are two types of rotations: In left-rotation, the arrangement of the nodes on the right is transformed into the arrangements on the left node.
Algorithm In right-rotation, the arrangement of the nodes on the left is transformed into the arrangements on the right node.
In left-right rotation, the arrangements are first shifted to the left and then to the right.
In right-left rotation, the arrangements are first shifted to the right and then to the left.
While inserting a new node, the new node is always inserted as a RED node.
After insertion of a new node, if the tree is violating the properties of the red-black tree then, we do the following operations.
Following steps are followed for inserting a new element into a red-black tree: Why newly inserted nodes are always red in a red-black tree?
This is because inserting a red node does not violate the depth property of a red-black tree.
If you attach a red node to a red node, then the rule is violated but it is easier to fix this problem than the problem introduced by violating the depth property.
This algorithm is used for maintaining the property of a red-black tree if the insertion of a newNode violates this property.
This operation removes a node from the tree.
After deleting a node, the red-black property is maintained again.
This algorithm is implemented when a black node is deleted because it violates the black depth property of the red-black tree.
This violation is corrected by assuming that node x (which is occupying y's original position) has an extra black.
This makes node x neither red nor black.
It is either doubly black or black-and-red.
This violates the red-black properties.
However, the color attribute of x is not changed rather the extra black is represented in x's pointing to the node.
The extra black can be removed if The following algorithm retains the properties of a red-black tree.
Please refer to insertion and deletion operations for more explanation with examples.
Sorry about that.
DS & Algorithms Insertion in a Red-Black Tree DS & Algorithms Deletion From a Red-Black Tree DS & Algorithms Full Binary Tree DS & Algorithms Tree Traversal - inorder, preorder and postorder © Parewa Labs Pvt.
Ltd. All rights reserved.