Try Programiz PRO Learn Python practically 
                and Get Certified.
Learn Python practically 
                        and Get Certified.
In Python, the global keyword allows us to modify the variable outside of the current scope.
It is used to create a global variable and make changes to the variable in a local context.
Before we learn about the global keyword, make sure you have got some basics of Python Variable Scope.
First let's try to access a global variable from the inside of a function, Here, we can see that we have accessed a global variable from the inside of a function.
However, if we try to modify the global variable from inside a function as: Output This is because we can only access the global variable but cannot modify it from inside the function.
The solution for this is to use the global keyword.
In the above example, we have defined c as the global keyword inside add().
Then, we have incremented the variable c by 2, i.e c = c + 2.
As we can see while calling add(), the value of global variable c is modified from 1 to 3.
In Python, we can also use the global keyword in a nested function.
For example, Output In the above example, we declared a global variable inside the nested function inner_function().
Inside outer_function(), num has no effect of the global keyword.
Before and after calling inner_function(), num takes the value of the local variable i.e num = 20.
Outside of the outer_function() function, num will take the value defined in the inner_function() function i.e x = 25.
This is because we have used the global keyword in num to create a global variable inside the inner_function() function (local scope).
So, if we make any changes inside the inner_function() function, the changes appear outside the local scope, i.e.
outer_function().
The basic rules for global keyword in Python are: Also Read: Sorry about that.
Python Tutorial Python Namespace and Scope Python Tutorial  Python Variable Scope Python Library Python globals() Python Tutorial List of Keywords in Python © Parewa Labs Pvt.
Ltd. All rights reserved.