Try Programiz PRO Learn Python practically 
                and Get Certified.
Learn Python practically 
                        and Get Certified.
Python has a module named datetime to work with dates and times.
It provides a variety of classes for representing and manipulating dates and times, as well as for formatting and parsing dates and times in a variety of formats.
Output Here, we have imported the datetime module using the import datetime statement.
One of the classes defined in the datetime module is the datetime class.
We then used the now() method to create a datetime object containing the current local date and time.
Output In the above example, we have used the today() method defined in the date class to get a datetime object containing the current local date.
We can use the dir() function to get a list containing all attributes of a module.
Output Among all the attributes of datetime module, the most commonly used classes in the datetime module are: In Python, we can instantiate date objects from the date class.
A date object represents a date (year, month and day).
Output Here, date() in the above example is a constructor of the date class.
The constructor takes three arguments: year, month and day.
We can only import the date class from the datetime module.
For example, Output Here, from datetime import date only imports the date class from the datetime module.
We can create a date object containing the current date by using the class method named today().
For example, Output We can also create date objects from a timestamp.
A UNIX timestamp is the number of seconds between a particular date and January 1, 1970, at UTC.
You can convert a timestamp to a date using the fromtimestamp() method.
Output We can get year, month, day, day of the week, etc.
from the date object easily.
For example, Output A time object instantiated from the time class represents the local time.
Output Once we create the time object, we can easily print its attributes such as hour, minute, etc.
For example,  Output Here, notice that we haven't passed the microsecond argument.
Hence, its default value 0 is printed.
The datetime module has a class named datetime that can contain information from both date and time objects.
Output The first three arguments year, month and day in the datetime() constructor are mandatory.
Output A timedelta object represents the difference between two dates or times.
For example, Output Notice, both t3 and t6 are of <class 'datetime.timedelta'> type.
Output Here, we have created two timedelta objects t1 and t2, and their difference is printed on the screen.
We can get the total number of seconds in a timedelta object using the total_seconds() method.
Output The way date and time are represented may be different in different places, organizations, etc.
It's more common to use mm/dd/yyyy in the US, whereas dd/mm/yyyy is more common in the UK.
Python has strftime() and strptime() methods to handle this.
The strftime() method is defined under classes date, datetime and time.
The method creates a formatted string from a given date, datetime or time object.
Let's see an example.
Output Here, %Y, %m, %d, %H etc.
are format codes.
The strftime() method takes one or more format codes and returns a formatted string based on it.
In the above example, t, s1 and s2 are strings.
To learn more about strftime() and format codes, visit: Python strftime().
The strptime() method creates a datetime object from a given string (representing date and time).
For example, Output The strptime() method takes two arguments: By the way, %d, %B and %Y format codes are used for day, month(full name) and year respectively.
To learn more about strptime() and format codes, visit: Python strptime().
Suppose, we are working on a project and need to display date and time based on their timezone.
Rather than trying to handle the timezone yourself, we suggest using a third-party pytZ module.
Output Here, datetime_NY and datetime_London are datetime objects containing the current date and time of their respective timezone.
Also Read: Sorry about that.
Python Tutorial How to get current date and time in Python?
Python Tutorial Python timestamp to datetime and vice-versa Python Tutorial Python strftime() Python Tutorial Python strptime() © Parewa Labs Pvt.
Ltd. All rights reserved.