Try Programiz PRO Learn Python practically 
                and Get Certified.
Learn Python practically 
                        and Get Certified.
Huffman Coding is a technique of compressing data to reduce its size without losing any of the details.
It was first developed by David Huffman.
Huffman Coding is generally useful to compress the data in which there are frequently occurring characters.
Suppose the string below is to be sent over a network.
Each character occupies 8 bits.
There are a total of 15 characters in the above string.
Thus, a total of 8 * 15 = 120 bits are required to send this string.
Using the Huffman Coding technique, we can compress the string to a smaller size.
Huffman coding first creates a tree using the frequencies of the character and then generates code for each character.
Once the data is encoded, it has to be decoded.
Decoding is done using the same tree.
Huffman Coding prevents any ambiguity in the decoding process using the concept of prefix code ie.
a code associated with a character should not be present in the prefix of any other code.
The tree created above helps in maintaining the property.
Huffman coding is done with the help of the following steps.
For sending the above string over a network, we have to send the tree as well as the above compressed-code.
The total size is given by the table below.
Without encoding, the total size of the string was 120 bits.
After encoding the size is reduced to 32 + 15 + 28 = 75.
For decoding the code, we can take the code and traverse through the tree to find the character.
Let 101 is to be decoded, we can traverse from the root as in the figure below.
The time complexity for encoding each unique character based on its frequency is O(nlog n).
Extracting minimum frequency from the priority queue takes place 2*(n-1) times and its complexity is O(log n).
Thus the overall complexity is O(nlog n).
Sorry about that.
DS & Algorithms Full Binary Tree DS & Algorithms Perfect Binary Tree DS & Algorithms Tree Traversal - inorder, preorder and postorder DS & Algorithms Binary Tree © Parewa Labs Pvt.
Ltd. All rights reserved.