Try Programiz PRO Learn Python practically 
                and Get Certified.
Learn Python practically 
                        and Get Certified.
In Python, we can declare variables in three different scopes: local scope, global, and nonlocal scope.
A variable scope specifies the region where we can access a variable.
For example, Here, the sum variable is created inside the function, so it can only be accessed within it (local scope).
This type of variable is called a local variable.
Based on the scope, we can classify Python variables into three types: When we declare variables inside a function, these variables will have a local scope (within the function).
We cannot access them outside the function.
These types of variables are called local variables.
For example, Output Here, the message variable is local to the greet() function, so it can only be accessed within the function.
That's why we get an error when we try to access it outside the greet() function.
To fix this issue, we can make the variable named message global.
In Python, a variable declared outside of the function or in global scope is known as a global variable.
This means that a global variable can be accessed inside or outside of the function.
Let's see an example of how a global variable is created in Python.
Output This time we can access the message variable from outside of the greet() function.
This is because we have created the message variable as the global variable.
Now, message will be accessible from any scope (region) of the program.
In Python, nonlocal variables are used in nested functions whose local scope is not defined.
This means that the variable can be neither in the local nor the global scope.
We use the nonlocal keyword to create nonlocal variables.
For example, Output In the above example, there is a nested inner() function.
We have used the nonlocal keywords to create a nonlocal variable.
The inner() function is defined in the scope of another function outer().
Note : If we change the value of a nonlocal variable, the changes appear in the local variable.
Also Read: Sorry about that.
Python Tutorial Python Global Keyword  Python Tutorial Python Namespace and Scope Python Tutorial Python Closures Python Library Python locals() © Parewa Labs Pvt.
Ltd. All rights reserved.