Try Programiz PRO Learn Python practically 
                and Get Certified.
Learn Python practically 
                        and Get Certified.
The number data types are used to store the numeric values.
Python supports integers, floating-point numbers and complex numbers.
They are defined as int, float, and complex classes in Python.
Integers and floating points are separated by the presence or absence of a decimal point.
For instance, Complex numbers are written in the form, x + yj, where x is the real part and y is the imaginary part.
We can use the type() function to know which class a variable or a value belongs to.
Let's see an example,  Output In the above example, we have created three variables named num1, num2 and num3 with values 5, 5.42, and 8+2j respectively.
We have also used the type() function to know which class a certain variable belongs to.
Since, The numbers we deal with every day are of the decimal (base 10) number system.
But computer programmers need to work with binary (base 2), hexadecimal (base 16) and octal (base 8) number systems.
In Python, we can represent these numbers by appropriately placing a prefix before that number.
The following table lists these prefixes.
Here are some examples In programming, type conversion is the process of converting one type of number into another.
Operations like addition, subtraction convert integers to float implicitly (automatically), if one of the operands is float.
For example, Here, we can see above that 1 (integer) is converted into 1.0 (float) for addition and the result is also a floating point number.
We can also use built-in functions like int(), float() and complex() to convert between types explicitly.
These functions can even convert from strings.
Here, when converting from float to integer, the number gets truncated (decimal parts are removed).
Similarly when converting from integer to float, .0 is postfixed to the number.
To learn more about type conversion in Python, visit Python Type Conversion.
Python offers the random module to generate random numbers or to pick a random item from an iterator.
First we need to import the random module.
For example, Output To learn more about the random module, visit Python Random Module.
Python offers the math module to carry out different mathematics like trigonometry, logarithms, probability and statistics, etc.
For example, Output Here is the full list of functions and attributes available in the Python math module.
Sorry about that.
Python Tutorial Python Data Types Python Tutorial Python Random Module Python Tutorial Python Type Conversion  Python Library Python float() © Parewa Labs Pvt.
Ltd. All rights reserved.