Try Programiz PRO Learn Python practically 
                and Get Certified.
Learn Python practically 
                        and Get Certified.
In the previous tutorial, you learned to write your first Python program.
Now, let's learn about Python comments.
Tip: We are introducing comments early in this tutorial series because, from now on, we will be using them to explain our code.
In Python, parts of code beginning with # are called comments.
For example, Here, # print a number is a comment.
As such, it is completely ignored by the computer.
Comments are hints that we add to our code to make it easier to understand.
Note: You can ignore the programming concepts and simply focus on the comments.
We will revisit these concepts in later tutorials.
We use the hash (#) symbol to write a single-line comment.
For example, In the above example, we have used three single-line comments: We can also use single-line comments alongside the code: Note: Remember the keyboard shortcut to apply comments.
In most text editors, it's Ctrl + / if you are on Windows & Cmd + / if you are on a Mac.
Unlike languages such as C++ and Java, Python doesn't have a dedicated method to write multi-line comments.
However, we can achieve the same effect by using the hash (#) symbol at the beginning of each line.
Let's look at an example.
We can also use multiline strings as comments like: Output We can see that these unassigned multiline strings are ignored.
Comments are valuable when debugging code.
If we encounter an error while running a program, instead of removing code segments, we can comment them out to prevent execution.
For example, Here, the code throws an error because we have not defined a product variable.
We can comment out the code that's causing the error.
For example, Output Now, the code runs without any errors.
Here, we have resolved the error by commenting out the code related to the product.
If we need to calculate the product in the near future, we can uncomment it.
We should use comments for the following reasons: Note: Comments are not and should not be used as a substitute to explain poorly written code.
Always try to write clean, understandable code, and then use comments as an addition.
In most cases, always use comments to explain 'why' rather than 'how' and you are good to go.
Next, we will be learning about Python variables and literals.
Sorry about that.
Python Tutorial Python Comments Python Tutorial Python Docstrings Python Tutorial Python pass Statement Python Tutorial Python Variables and Literals © Parewa Labs Pvt.
Ltd. All rights reserved.