Try Programiz PRO Learn Python practically 
                and Get Certified.
Learn Python practically 
                        and Get Certified.
A directory is a collection of files and subdirectories.
A directory inside a directory is known as a subdirectory.
Python has the os module that provides us with many useful methods to work with directories (and files as well).
We can get the present working directory using the getcwd() method of the os module.
This method returns the current working directory in the form of a string.
For example, Here, getcwd() returns the current directory in the form of a string.
In Python, we can change the current working directory by using the chdir() method.
The new path that we want to change into must be supplied as a string to this method.
And we can use both the forward-slash / or the backward-slash \ to separate the path elements.
Let's see an example, Here, we have used the chdir() method to change the current working directory and passed a new path as a string to chdir().
All files and sub-directories inside a directory can be retrieved using the listdir() method.
This method takes in a path and returns a list of subdirectories and files in that path.
If no path is specified, it returns the list of subdirectories and files from the current working directory.
In Python, we can make a new directory using the mkdir() method.
This method takes in the path of the new directory.
If the full path is not specified, the new directory is created in the current working directory.
The rename() method can rename a directory or a file.
For renaming any directory or file, rename() takes in two basic arguments: Let's see an example, Here, 'test' directory is renamed to 'new_one' using the rename() method.
In Python, we can use the remove() method or the rmdir() method to remove a file or directory.
First let's use remove() to delete a file, Here, we have used the remove() method to remove the "myfile.txt" file.
Now let's use rmdir() to delete an empty directory, In order to remove a non-empty directory, we can use the rmtree() method inside the shutil module.
For example, It's important to note that these functions permanently delete the files or directories, so we need to careful when using them.
Also Read: Sorry about that.
Python Library Python open() Python Tutorial  Python File Operation  Python Tutorial Python Package Python Tutorial Python Main function © Parewa Labs Pvt.
Ltd. All rights reserved.