These Terms of Service (“Terms”) govern the contractual relationship between the company (hereinafter referred to as the “Programiz PRO”, “us”, “we”, or “our”) and each client, student, individual, entity, user or visitor (hereinafter referred to as “you” or “your”) (i) accessing the website located at https://programiz.pro (hereinafter referred to as the “Website”), and/or (ii) using the Services (as defined under Section 2.1 of these Terms).
You and Programiz PRO shall also hereinafter be referred to together as the “Parties” and individually as a “Party”.
Please read these Terms carefully before using the Website and Services.
Your access to the Website and your use of the Services (defined below) are conditioned upon your acceptance of and compliance with these Terms: By accessing the Website and by using the Services (as defined below) you agree to be bound by these Terms and accept to comply with all applicable laws and regulations.
Should you disagree to be bound by these Terms, in whole or in part, you shall (i) not be permitted/authorized to use the Services (defined below), and (ii) refrain from accessing/using the Website and Services.
Your continued use of the Website and Services shall be deemed to constitute your acceptance of these Terms.
Programiz PRO reserves the right, at any time and in its sole discretion, to modify or replace these Terms by providing notice that these Terms have been modified.
Such notice may be provided by sending an email, posting a notice on the Site, posting the revised Terms on the Site and revising the date at the top of these Terms, or such other form of notice as determined by the Company.
Any changes or modifications will be effective 7 days after providing notice that these Terms have been modified (the “Notice Period“).
Your continued use of the Services following the Notice Period will constitute your acceptance of such changes or modifications.
Your continued access to the Website and use of the Services following the posting of any changes to these Terms shall be subject to the newly modified Terms.
Programiz PRO provides you, through the Website, with the following services (hereinafter referred to as the “Services”): You acknowledge and agree that depending on the Online Course you select and register for on the E-Learning Platform, the Online Course may include one or more of the following: (i) a selection of video lectures of various durations, (ii) code challenges for the practical experience; (iii) mock exams and/or quizzes to test the skills you have learned; (iv) a selection of text-based interactive courses; (v) professional certifications, badges, rewards, and other credentials verified by Programiz PRO or our third-party certification providers.
You acknowledge, understand, and agree that the Online Courses provided by Programiz PRO on the E-Learning Platform do not include any live courses led by an instructor/teacher/educator.
Programiz PRO does not offer any guarantees with regards to the Online Courses available on the E-Learning Platform.
Therefore, you hereby acknowledge and agree that Programiz PRO grants you a limited, revocable, non-transferable, non-sublicensable, non-exclusive license to: For the avoidance of doubt, you shall not (i) be granted any right to commercialise or otherwise sublicense, transfer, assign, and/or convey the Services, and (ii) permit any third party to use or copy the Services, in whole or in part, or any improvements thereto.
You acknowledge and agree that any and all subscription payments, you make to obtain access to the Services on the Website and E-Learning Platform, are for your internal business or personal use only.
As such you shall not be permitted or authorized to share such Services, for which payment has been received by Programiz PRO from you, with any unauthorized third party.
Should Programiz PRO reasonably suspect you, in its sole discretion, of partaking in any irregular activity/abuse to access the Online Courses, we may block your use of the Services and terminate your access to the Website and E-Learning Platform in accordance with Section 15 (Suspension, Termination and Cancellation of Subscription Plan) of these Terms.
Programiz PRO may, in its sole discretion, launch certain limited promotions for the subscription to selected Services at discounted rates.
You acknowledge and understand that such promotions shall (i) be for a limited duration; (ii) not apply to any Services subscribed to prior to the commencement of the promotion period; and (iii) include additional terms and conditions.
You acknowledge that Programiz PRO may, in its sole discretion at any time without notice and for any or no reason, add, change, suspend, remove or discontinue any or all part(s) of the Services and/or Website.
You agree to use the Website and access the Services for lawful purposes only.
Therefore, you agree to not: From Monday to Friday, except on holidays, Programiz PRO shall provide you with support services via email in order to address any queries and concerns you may have pertaining to the Services as well as to any payment/account issue within 5 business days.
In order to use the Services, you must first register with Programiz PRO through our online registration process, by providing all required information which shall include but not be limited to your full name and email address.
An account shall thereafter be opened by Programiz PRO, in its sole discretion, for you on the Website (“User Account”).
Each User Account is personal, non-transferable, and may only be registered and used by one (1) single individual/entity.
You may not access any third party's account or authorize any third party to access your User Account and use the Services on your behalf.
You acknowledge and agree that Programiz PRO may, in its sole discretion, deny you access to its Website and/or Services in the event it detects a breach of these Terms or any other agreements made between you Programiz PRO.
Where a registered user is a legal entity, the natural person (you) registering the User Account on behalf of such legal entity warrants that you have the legal capacity and power to (i) act on behalf of and represent such legal entity, (ii) proceed with the registration of the legal entity and creation of its User Account on the Website, (iii) accept these Terms on its behalf, and (iv) make payment of the Online Course for and on behalf of such legal entity.
You agree to (i) provide true, accurate, current and complete information about yourself as prompted by Programiz PRO's registration process on the Website, and (ii) maintain and promptly update the information provided during registration to keep it true, accurate, current, and complete at all times.
If you provide any information to Programiz PRO that is untrue, inaccurate, outdated, or incomplete, or if we have reasonable grounds to suspect that such information is untrue, inaccurate, outdated, or incomplete, we may close your User Account on the Website and deny you the ability to access and use the Services.
You agree to hold Programiz PRO harmless and bear full responsibility for all damages accrued by Programiz PRO in the event of any violation of the obligations provided under this Section.
You may indicate, during the registration process, to Programiz PRO your User Account's username (which shall be your registered email address) and your choice of password to be used as login credentials to access your User Account (“Login Credentials”).
You shall be solely responsible for (i) maintaining the confidentiality of your Login Credentials; and (ii) any and all activities which occur under your User Account.
You agree to notify Programiz PRO immediately of any unauthorized use of your User Account or any other breach of security.
Programiz PRO shall not be liable for any loss that you may incur as a result of any third-party using your Login Credentials and/or accessing/using your User Account either with or without your knowledge.
However, you may be held liable for losses incurred by Programiz PRO due to any third-party using your Login Credentials and/or User Account.
You acknowledge and agree that you may not (i) use the User Account of another user registered on the Website, and further acknowledge that User Accounts are for use by one user only, and (ii) impersonate any individual or entity, or falsely state or otherwise misrepresent any affiliation with an individual or entity when accessing the Website and when using the Services on the Website.
Should you wish to delete your User Account, you may email Programiz PRO at contact@programiz.pro.
with your request to delete your User Account.
We also provide a way to do this yourself within the Website.
Following such a request, Programiz PRO will permanently delete your User Account, as well as any data contained in the User Account, within 30 calendar days from the submission of your deletion request.
You acknowledge and agree that by submitting a request to delete your User Account, you will no longer be able to access the Online Courses.
Programiz PRO shall not be liable for any damages caused from such deletion of your User Account.
The provisions of Section 15 (Suspension, Termination and Cancellation of Subscription Plan) shall also apply in case of the deletion of your User Account.
You acknowledge that your User account is for your personal or internal business use.
As such, you agree to receiving certain marketing and promotional communications from Programiz PRO, as it pertains to the Services we provide on the Website.
You have the possibility to opt out of such emails at any time by following the instructions regarding the unsubscription provided therein.
You shall not use your User Account to (i) resell any of the Services, and/or (ii) post any content on the E-Learning Platform which could be construed as an advertisement.
We only use third-party payment services providers and do not process any payments on our own.
Our order process is conducted by our online reseller Paddle.com.
Paddle.com is the Merchant of Record for all our orders.
Paddle provides all customer service inquiries and handles returns.
When you subscribe to a paid Subscription Plan, you shall provide your full name, business name, address, contact information to Programiz PRO.
Credit or debit card details will be collected exclusively by the Third-Party Payment Service Provider of your choosing.
You hereby consent and authorize Programiz PRO and Paddle to share any information or payment instructions you provide with Third-Party Payment Services Providers to the minimum extent required to complete your transactions.
By processing payments on the Website and by clicking on any link of Third-Party Payment Services Providers provided on the Website, you acknowledge you are no longer using our Services and therefore our Terms, Privacy Policy and any other documents by Programiz PRO are not applicable anymore and you agree to be bound by any terms and conditions, privacy policies or other policies of Third-Party Payment Services Providers, including but not limited to Paddle Terms and Conditions, Service Agreement, Privacy Policy and other documents, accessible on:https://paddle.com By submitting payment information, you automatically authorize our Third-Party Payment Services Providers to charge all Subscription Plan fees to your credit card, debit card or Paddle account on a recurring monthly/annual basis, until cancellation of the Subscription Plan or until termination/suspension of these Terms as further provided herein under Section 15 (Suspension, Termination and Cancellation of Subscription Plan), for (i) the applicable Subscription Plan fee, (ii) any other charges as agreed between the Parties, and (iii) any and all applicable taxes.
Programiz PRO may in its sole discretion and at any time modify, terminate, or otherwise amend the Subscription Plan fees and features associated with your subscription.
If we notify you in advance of at least fifteen (15) days, your continued use of the Website and the E-Learning Platform after the changes have been made will constitute your acceptance of the changes.
If you do not wish to continue subscribing with the new fees or features, you may terminate your subscription by canceling at any time.
If you accept the new subscription, its terms and conditions with these Terms will apply until further notice.
Also, the fees may change when you upgrade or downgrade the Subscription Plan or move from one E-Learning Platform to another.
If you are located in a country where sales tax, goods and services tax, or value added tax is applicable to consumer sales, our payment partner Paddle is responsible for collecting and remitting that tax to the proper tax authorities.
Depending on your location, the price you see may include such taxes, or tax may be added at checkout.
You shall be responsible for the payment of any and all Taxes (except for those based on Programiz PRO's income) associated with the subscribed Services on the Website.
You hereby indemnify and hold Programiz PRO harmless from the payment of any Taxes and costs associated with the collection or withholding thereof, including penalties and interest.
If Programiz PRO is under a legal obligation to pay or collect Taxes for which you are responsible, the applicable amount shall be invoiced to and paid by you unless you provide Programiz PRO with a valid tax exemption certificate from the applicable taxing authority.
You acknowledge and agree that Programiz PRO may: Any suggestions, comments, or other feedback provided by you to Programiz PRO with respect to the Services, Website or E-Learning Platform will constitute confidential information of Programiz PRO.
Programiz PRO will be free to use, disclose, reproduce, license, and otherwise distribute and exploit the feedback provided to it as it sees fit, entirely without obligation or restriction of any kind, on account of intellectual property rights or otherwise.
Programiz PRO's Privacy Policy, available at https://programiz.pro/privacy-policy, governs the use, storage and processing of the personal information you may provide to Programiz PRO through your access to the Website, E-Learning Platform and/or through your use of the Services.
Your election to use the Services via the Website and E-Learning Platform shall be deemed as your acceptance of the terms of our Privacy Policy.
In accordance with the California Civil Code Section 1789.3 California resident Users are entitled to the following specific consumer rights notice: The Complaint Assistance Unit of the Division of Consumer Platforms of the California Department of Consumer Affairs may be contacted in writing at 1625 North Market Blvd., Suite N 112, Sacramento, CA 95834, or by telephone at (916) 445-1254 or (800) 952-5210.
Should you have any questions concerning these Terms and/or any issues or concerns about the Website and/or Services you may contact Programiz PRO at contact@programiz.pro