Try Programiz PRO Learn Python practically 
                and Get Certified.
Learn Python practically 
                        and Get Certified.
In Python, a dictionary is an unordered collection of items.
For example: Here, dictionary has a key:value pair enclosed within curly brackets {}.
To learn more about dictionary, please visit Python Dictionary.
In Python, a nested dictionary is a dictionary inside a dictionary.
It's a collection of dictionaries into one single dictionary.
Here, the nested_dict is a nested dictionary with the dictionary dictA and dictB.
They are two dictionary each having own key and value.
We're going to create dictionary of people within a dictionary.
When we run above program, it will output: In the above program, people is a nested dictionary.
The internal dictionary 1 and 2 is assigned to people.
Here, both the dictionary have key name, age , sex with different values.
Now, we print the result of people.
To access element of a nested dictionary, we use indexing [] syntax in Python.
When we run above program, it will output:  In the above program, we print the value of key name using i.e.
people[1]['name'] from internal dictionary 1.
Similarly, we print the value of age and sex one by one.
When we run above program, it will output: In the above program, we create an empty dictionary 3 inside the dictionary people.
Then, we add the key:value pair i.e people[3]['Name'] = 'Luna' inside the dictionary 3.
Similarly, we do this for key age, sex and married one by one.
When we print the people[3], we get key:value pairs of dictionary 3.
When we run above program, it will output: In the above program, we assign a dictionary literal to people[4].
The literal have keys name, age and sex with respective values.
Then we print the people[4], to see that the dictionary 4 is added in nested dictionary people.
In Python, we use “ del “ statement to delete elements from nested dictionary.
When we run above program, it will output: In the above program, we delete the key:value pairs of married from internal dictionary 3 and 4.
Then, we print the people[3] and people[4] to confirm changes.
When we run above program, it will output: In the above program, we delete both the internal dictionary 3 and 4 using del from the nested dictionary people.
Then, we print the nested dictionary people to confirm changes.
Using the for loops, we can iterate through each elements in a nested dictionary.
When we run above program, it will output: In the above program, the first loop returns all the keys in the nested dictionary people.
It consist of the IDs p_id of each person.
We use these IDs to unpack the information p_info of each person.
The second loop goes through the information of each person.
Then, it returns all of the keys name, age, sex of each person's dictionary.
Now, we print the key of the person’s information and the value for that key.
Sorry about that.
Python Tutorial Python Dictionary Comprehension Python Library Python Dictionary setdefault() Python Library Python Dictionary clear() Python Library Python Dictionary popitem() © Parewa Labs Pvt.
Ltd. All rights reserved.