Try Programiz PRO Learn Python practically 
                and Get Certified.
Learn Python practically 
                        and Get Certified.
Operators are special symbols that perform operations on variables  and values.
For example, Here, + is an operator that adds two numbers: 5 and 6.
Here's a list of different types of Python operators that we will learn in this tutorial.
Arithmetic operators are used to perform mathematical operations like addition, subtraction, multiplication, etc.
For example, Here, - is an arithmetic operator that subtracts two values or variables.
Output In the above example, we have used multiple arithmetic operators,  Assignment operators are used to assign values to variables.
For example, Here, = is an assignment operator that assigns 5 to x.
Here's a list of different assignment operators available in Python.
Here, we have used the += operator to assign the sum of a and b to a.
Similarly, we can use any other assignment operators as per our needs.
Comparison operators compare two values/variables and return a boolean result: True or False.
For example, Here, the > comparison operator is used to compare whether a is greater than b or not.
Output Note: Comparison operators are used in decision-making and loops.
We'll discuss more of the comparison operator and decision-making in later tutorials.
Logical operators are used to check whether an expression is True or False.
They are used in decision-making.
For example, Here, and is the logical operator AND.
Since both a > 2 and b >= 6 are True, the result is True.
Note: Here is the truth table for these logical operators.
Bitwise operators act on operands as if they were strings of binary digits.
They operate bit by bit, hence the name.
For example, 2 is 10 in binary, and 7 is 111.
In the table below: Let x = 10 (0000 1010 in binary) and y = 4 (0000 0100 in binary) Python language offers some special types of operators like the identity operator and the membership operator.
They are described below with examples.
In Python, is and is not are used to check if two values are located at the same memory location.
It's important to note that having two variables with equal values doesn't necessarily mean they are identical.
Here, we see that x1 and y1 are integers of the same values, so they are equal as well as identical.
The same is the case with x2 and y2 (strings).
But x3 and y3 are lists.
They are equal but not identical.
It is because the interpreter locates them separately in memory, although they are equal.
In Python, in and not in are the membership operators.
They are used to test whether a value or variable is found in a sequence (string, list, tuple, set and dictionary).
In a dictionary, we can only test for the presence of a key, not the value.
Output Here, 'H' is in message, but 'hello' is not present in message (remember, Python is case-sensitive).
Similarly, 1 is key, and 'a' is the value in dictionary dict1.
Hence, 'a' in y returns False.
Also Read: Sorry about that.
Python Tutorial Precedence and Associativity of Operators in Python Python Tutorial Python Operator Overloading Python Tutorial Python if...else Statement Python Tutorial Python 3 Tutorial © Parewa Labs Pvt.
Ltd. All rights reserved.