Try Programiz PRO Learn Python practically 
                and Get Certified.
Learn Python practically 
                        and Get Certified.
Recursion is the process of defining something in terms of itself.
A physical world example would be to place two parallel mirrors facing each other.
Any object in between them would be reflected recursively.
Do you want to learn Recursion the right way?
Enroll in our Interactive Recursion Course.
In Python, we know that a function can call other functions.
It is even possible for the function to call itself.
These types of construct are termed as recursive functions.
The following image shows the working of a recursive function called recurse.
Following is an example of a recursive function to find the factorial of an integer.
Factorial of a number is the product of all the integers from 1 to that number.
For example, the factorial of 6 (denoted as 6!)
is 1*2*3*4*5*6 = 720.
Output In the above example, factorial() is a recursive function as it calls itself.
When we call this function with a positive integer, it will recursively call itself by decreasing the number.
Each function multiplies the number with the factorial of the number below it until it is equal to one.
This recursive call can be explained in the following steps.
Let's look at an image that shows a step-by-step process of what is going on:  Our recursion ends when the number reduces to 1.
This is called the base condition.
Every recursive function must have a base condition that stops the recursion or else the function calls itself infinitely.
The Python interpreter limits the depths of recursion to help avoid infinite recursions, resulting in stack overflows.
By default, the maximum depth of recursion is 1000.
If the limit is crossed, it results in RecursionError.
Let's look at one such condition.
Output Also Read: Do you want to learn Recursion the right way?
Enroll in our Interactive Recursion Course.
Sorry about that.
Python Tutorial Python 3 Tutorial Python Tutorial Python Mathematical Functions Python Tutorial Python User-defined Functions Python Tutorial Python Functions © Parewa Labs Pvt.
Ltd. All rights reserved.